[music]
>> Some of these unwinds have been
technical and mechanical.
>> The equity markets, guys, don't seem to
be overly concerned.
>> Is there opportunity in the market? I
think absolutely.
>> The market will not wait for clarity.
The market is just looking for are
things getting less bad?
>> We kind of have to take it one day at a
time.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, positioning for the end
game.
We're finishing the job and I think
within
maybe 2 weeks, maybe a couple of days
longer to do the job, but we want to
knock out every single thing they have.
Now, it's possible that we'll make a
deal before that. The president gearing
up to address the nation later on this
evening as the UAE is reportedly
preparing to help the US reopen the
strait. Crude trimming gains following a
record-breaking monthly rally. A warm
welcome to Q2. [music] And it's clear to
smudge just as it was during Q1.
Ultimately, what have we learned? It's
not really clear exactly where the talks
are going. I think the key questions
going into Q2 are one, what's actually
going [music] on with talks? Number two,
what's actually going on with physical
markets? And number three, if there is
some sort [music] of de-escalation or
ceasefire without some sort of
established new rule around the Strait
of Hormuz, how positive [music] is that
for commodities?
>> wants two things. End the hostilities.
Get energy moving once again. Two
stories. One, the president [music]
ready to end the war in a few weeks
time. We hope. We'll see. And two, the
Wall Street Journal with this story
right here. The UAE preparing to help
reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
>> So, potentially this would be a part of
a broader coalition. They seem to be
having outreach as well to the United
Nations regarding this. They view this
as the rest of the world views this as
an international waterway, not one that
could be completely controlled by the
Iranian regime. It also goes back to
what Ambassador Yousef Al Otaiba, the
UAE Ambassador to the United States,
[music] had an op-ed in the Wall Street
Journal. It goes back to what he said,
quote, we aren't asking the United
States to carry out the full burden.
What they're basically saying is we are
willing to take a more aggressive
posture alongside the United States.
>> So, what's the outlook for prices?
What's the base case in the White House?
This from Politico just moments ago. The
base [music] case, their advice from
Treasury officials, prepare for $100 per
[music] barrel for some time.
>> And this ultimately is the conclusion
that a lot of people are coming to,
which will allow the economy to grow,
[music] but poses opposes the biggest
threat to central bankers worldwide
because ultimately it's going to be that
increase in inflationary pressure
without necessarily the downdraft on
growth that leaves them in an obvious
position. It's sort of stagflation-like,
stagflation-esque, and maybe [music]
outright stagflation when you look at
the Eurozone.
>> World are wrestling with the same thing.
For European gas prices up by something
[music] like 60%. The crude move, 50,
60% higher for the month of March. And
now we start to see the shortages
>> [music]
>> through Asia, rationing in places like
Indonesia. And a question, Lisa
mentioned Europe. Is Europe next if this
isn't get solved and solved quickly?
>> one of the most important interviews
yesterday, maybe it was important to
this White House cuz the president took
aim directly at UK jet fuel about 20
minutes after Societe Generale was on
this program and said, the last vessel
carrying
>> [music]
>> jet fuel into the United Kingdom, it's
on its way now. And after that, there's
none coming left.
>> It's nice to get rid of March, isn't it?
Just to start a new month, new quarter.
>> is April Fool's Day. All I can say All I
can say is I have a feeling it's going
to be a lot more fun. It's going to be a
lot more stable at April. Oh, my
goodness. The never-ending first quarter
has come to a close. Welcome to Q2 and a
month of April. Coming up this hour,
Stephen Orth of Federated with stocks
[music] coming off their best day since
May. And Ellen Wald of the Atlantic
Council on why oil markets are facing
more questions than answers. And Ellen
Zentner of Morgan Stanley as markets
look to turn the page on a wild first
quarter. We begin this hour with the top
story. President Trump saying the US
could end operations in Iran in 2 to 3
weeks. Bloomberg's Joumana Bercetche
joins us now from Dubai for more. Good
morning, Joumana. Not just that story,
but also the UAE preparing to enter to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz. How's that
going down across the region?
Yeah, well, again, once again, there's a
lot to unpack here. It's certainly not
the first time that President Trump has
given a time frame for how long he
expects the war to go on for. The
latest, obviously, the suggestion that
it could go on another 2 to 3 weeks. I
will just remind people, 2 to 3 weeks is
actually a really long time in terms of
military operations. And during that 2
to 3 week window, there's another
deadline that President Trump set.
Remember the April 6th deadline,
uh vis-a-vis Iran coming to the table
and if they're not doing that, then the
US reserved the right to hit back at
their infrastructure and their power
plants. That is also a deadline that is
coming up on Monday as well. So, within
those constraints, I will say that a
couple of things have actually stood out
in the last 24 hours though. The first
is the fact that uh the US seem to think
that they are progressing very well
militarily. And even this is echoed by
the Israeli Prime Minister as well.
Benjamin Netanyahu also gave a speech
yesterday, which I thought was
interesting. He said the two existential
threats of ballistic missiles and
nuclear weapons have now been removed.
So, this is also coming from the Israeli
Prime Minister. Notable. Second is
President Trump seemed to imply that you
don't need to have a deal with Iran in
order for the war to end. So, implying
that Iran does not have agency here. Of
course, they would attest that they have
their own conditions as well for the war
to end, including assurances that that
this wouldn't happen again. And then the
third point, which has really become, I
think, quite apparent in the last 24
hours, is the delinking between the
military objectives on one side versus
the fate of the strait and what happens
to the Strait of Hormuz here. And an
outcome in which Iran are still
exercising sovereignty and still
controlling who and what vessels get to
pass through the strait is an outcome
that is unacceptable for pretty much all
of the nations in in the Gulf for sure
and and most nations around the world.
This should be a free maritime shipping
passage. So, there is the story that
came through from Wall Street Journal
overnight suggesting that the UAE are
putting forward a resolution at the
United
Nations Security Council in order for
them to be involved in reopening the
strait by force, either militarily or by
offering assistance to the US. And I
think they would get strong support on
that front from Bahrain. And certainly
the language coming of Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia would suggest that they too
are aligned in terms of
you know, Iran's
fate and that they should not be able to
exercise such a sovereignty over the
Strait of Hormuz. But at the same time,
I think the language here is also very
important and they have reiterated that
if they were to get involved, it should
be part of a broader global coalition.
And so, potentially over the next couple
of weeks, maybe you're going to start
see more reporting emerge about a global
coalition that's forming, not just with
the Gulf states, but perhaps with
European allies as well to help secure
secure the safe passage of vessels going
through. One last thing that I just want
to remind people over the next 2 to 3
weeks, there are more military assets
from the US arriving to the region.
There's a third aircraft carrier that
has set sail. That happened in the last
couple of days. It should be arriving in
the next 2 to 3 weeks. And so, the
build-up of military is still going on
and the operations are still going on. I
will tell you over here in the UAE, we
have had the busiest couple of days of
of air defenses being triggered uh since
the beginning of the war. So, you know,
the operations are still going on at at
high intensity. Joumana, with the latest
on the ground. Joumana, thank you.
Joumana Bercetche there leading our
coverage out of the region. The first
trading day of April could be a long
trading day. The president addressing
the nation later on this evening.
>> I was thinking to myself, how many
people were excited thinking maybe this
is an April Fool's joke and I don't have
to stay up until 10:00 or 11:00 p.m. to
understand exactly what the mood for Q2
is going to be.
>> Well, source called me last night after
that news became public and said it's
going to be the Academy Awards a verbal
intervention.
More to come a little bit later on this
evening. Here's a view on Wall Street
this morning. Stephen
Orth of Federated writing the following,
we are treating this as another brick in
the wall of worry as the US markets
advance to towards our S&P 500 target of
7,500 for 2026. Steve joins us now for
more. Steve, good morning. Why is this
just another brick in a climbable wall
of worry?
Uh well, we have an expression at
Federated Hermes, you know, if it can't
happen, it won't.
And um I think, you know, the
alternative really can't happen. And
you're seeing already UAE stepping in
here.
Um we can't have
20 million, okay, 11 million barrels a
day, I guess, if they can keep the Red
Sea open
uh of the world's oil supply, which is
11% unavailable. That just takes oil,
you know, roughly, I think as you guys
know, it's about 10 bucks a barrel. So,
you're looking at a number in the 150s.
That would kill the global economy.
So, um we have a 15% probability that
that's what happens. So, that's why
we're we're sort of signaling caution
here. We have not added to equities. Uh
we're keeping our forecast in place at
the moment.
But every week that goes by,
um you know, we get closer to the summer
driving season. I think you know that
the gasoline um
output, you know, they have to store it
in advance. They can't produce enough to
meet demand during the summer season.
So,
yeah, crack spreads
uh are closing in on $20 on top of the
oil price. You know, that gets you to
levels that often results in a demand
response.
So,
few more weeks of this,
you know, we're going to have to take
down our GDP forecast. President just
told you it's going to be a few more
weeks.
I think that's why he's looking at those
number of weeks. I I think they're doing
the math on this. So, they really do
have to figure out a way to get this
over
uh in a couple more weeks or people are
going to start taking down their GDP
forecast. We, you know, we entered into
this with GDP ahead of consensus. We
were at 4% for this year because of all
the stuff that's going on with the one
big beautiful bill and all you know the
stuff people have talked about.
And the underlying earnings pretty good.
Investments are pretty good. So,
fortunately, we're entering into this
with strong number.
So, this doesn't yet put us into a
recession scenario. It's more like lower
growth than we're anticipating. I'm also
looking very clear carefully now. We've
got earning season coming up
in another 10 days or so and um
you know, it's going to be great. We we
know that coming into the thing. But the
question is
is this going to be like the weather?
You know, everyone's going to be talking
about the weather here which is
you know, the Middle East and
uh guidance might be more conservative
and that that's probably not good for
the market either. So, There are a lot
of unknowns. There are known unknowns
and then there are unknown unknowns and
it's just a a really muddy moment and
everyone's really frustrated which when
analysts came in yesterday and said it
gives me a lot of time to take a step
back and have big thoughts. So, I'm
curious for you to have big thoughts to
understand how structurally the market
has changed. Even if say this is a short
conflict, there will be an inflationary
read-through. And if the economy is
strong, even more so. And right now it
seems like we're pushing up against the
limits of both fiscal borrowing as well
as just how much the Fed can stimulate
or monetary policy makers can really
stimulate on the other end.
How much do rates at 4 1/2 to 5% in the
United States materially change the
outlook for US equities going forward if
they're not going to come down all that
much and if it's the same around the
world? Okay, so we tend Lisa, you know,
we're we're trying to invest against a
three-year horizon. So, we're we're
looking out past this and saying what
world are we going to be in? We should
be back to world that's growing
reasonably well. All those drivers we
talked about, the AI revolution, etc.
And a market that is significantly
cheaper than it was
three months ago. So, on that view,
we'll come through this. The question is
in the meantime, how do you navigate
your way there? And
as I said, if this goes on longer, I'm
more worried about the demand impact.
You're more worried about the inflation
impact.
>> Well, it's one or the other. But I would
say 4 1/2 is another Maginot Line for
the Trump administration. We saw that
uh back in April of last year.
Um we got close to it again just
recently. Uh we're not back down quite a
bit now, but yeah, I mean, 4 1/2 is not
a good number. Can you have both not
necessarily downside surprise if you do
have some sort of end to this and
companies can maneuver through it and
then also get the disinflationary
pull-through that a lot of people are
expecting later this year. I mean, do
you have to have one or the other?
Either a downturn in growth or stickier
inflation and central banks that are not
going to be cutting rates that
potentially could pressure valuations?
>> Well, I don't think the inflation's
going to be stickier if they really do
get this done in the next few weeks and
get the straits reopened, right? Because
people are not going to factor in those
higher prices forever which is what you
need to be stickier. So,
I'm still not on the sticky inflate I'm
more worried about the summer driving
season, the demand impact.
They're going to figure out a way
whether it's Trump declaring victory,
but the Iranians, what are they going to
do? The only thing they've got left is
the Strait of Hormuz.
>> But the markets though, can you declare
victory and still have the Iranians in
control of the Strait of Hormuz and not
have normal traffic?
>> I think that's going to be very
difficult.
Right? That's going to be the issue. So,
it's a two-way negotiation.
Um the you know, the market right now is
like a multi-dimensional chess board
with some very smart players in it and
so I think
when I play that kind of chess, I've got
a board at my home if anyone wants to
try it.
>> [laughter]
>> We play it every day. The thing that the
thing that makes me most difficult for
me when I was younger and used to play
with my sons were younger and a little
bit crazier
um
is an unorthodox player
that you can't predict that's on the
board. If I think Trump is winning,
you're dealing with an unorthodox
player, that's for sure. Yeah, and
that's what makes this so difficult for
everybody because
we we've got an unorthodox player here
who's playing for different things, you
know.
Um
economics is not necessarily their their
driver.
>> two parts to your question by the way.
The first part was is the markets going
to be okay with Iran controlling the
Strait of Hormuz and the second part was
with restricted energy. For the first
part of the short term, I don't think
the market will care who's in control of
the Strait of Hormuz as long as the
energy's flowing. The more important
part is whether the energy's flowing and
right now it's not flowing. There's just
a hope that the president moves on.
Iran takes control
in the near term maybe and then the
energy starts flowing again. They'll
charge people for it. I don't think in
the near term the market's going to care
about that. Over the longer term, that
will have consequences for the kind of
premium that will be put on crude coming
through the Strait of Hormuz, the risk
around that. But in the near term, this
market's been itching to move on now
Well, okay. Well, the the longer term
outlook for oil has gone higher
regardless because of that, John. So,
and you know, what we're looking
at is a demand impact here of people
saying I got to have a a bigger reserve
to avoid this. And longer term, this is
probably really good for nuclear energy
companies. That's the structural shift.
Just one final question. Tech multiples,
real multiple contraction through the
last month or so. Is that compression an
opportunity or does that speak to the
structural shift we're seeing in how we
value this equity market?
>> We think it you know, as you know, what
before just the day before this started,
we took down our target for the year and
we took down the tech multiples because
we saw the big mega caps going from big
free cash flow generators to in the near
term not being big free cash flow
generators and we don't know how long
that's going to go on for. So,
we've kind of switched our portfolios
fortunately towards hard asset
companies,
you know, a little more value intensive.
And I think once you come out of this,
you're still faced with that problem.
The AI disruption on the software side
of tech and you know, the free cash flow
decline. That's why companies that are
growing free cash flow
right now tend to be on the old economy
side of the of the like Chevron. I mean,
their free cash flow is ballooning.
Micron by the way, free cash flow and
that stock, you know, down significantly
here, down 30%, but their free cash flow
is going to go up by eight times over
the next couple of years. So, I think
that's where the market is going to end
up going to.
Um
you know, the tech is okay here. The
price I think has already kind of
corrected, but Yeah. I'm not sure it can
lead us out of this. Steve, good to see
you. As always, thank you, Steve.
>> you. Steve Bilo of Federated have a
happy Easter. It's good to see you.
Happy Easter, happy Passover, happy
everything.
>> [laughter]
>> That wouldn't offend anyone. Of course,
happy everything. Whatever it is today,
whatever it will be tomorrow.
Equity futures right now in the S&P
positive by half of 1%. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohana Hasmore, hi
Yohana. Good morning, John. President
Trump saying he is strongly considering
pulling the United States out of NATO
after it failed [music] to join his war
on Iran. Trump telling the Telegraph
that the NATO alliance is a paper tiger
and that withdrawing [music]
US membership is quotes beyond
reconsideration.
An Iranian missile hit a fuel oil tanker
off the coast of Qatar today. A total of
three missiles were launched from Iran,
but two were intercepted. This as Iran
continues [music] to launch attacks at
Israel, Bahrain, Kuwait, and the United
Arab Emirates.
And staying on the UAE, it is reportedly
gearing up [music] to join the war.
According to the Wall Street Journal,
officials are reviewing how it could
play a military role in securing the
Strait [music] of Hormuz. This would
make it the first GCC country to join
the fight after [music] being hit by
Iran. That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohana, thank you. Thank you for that.
More from Yohana later this uh up next
on the program, finishing the job.
[music]
We're finishing the job and I think
within
maybe two weeks, maybe a couple of days
longer to do the job. But we want to
knock out every single thing they have.
Now, it's possible that we'll make a
deal before that. Up next on the
program, Colonel Wayne Sanders joins us
to break down what he sees materializing
in the Middle East. From New York City
this morning, good morning.
The facts continues. Equity futures hot
here by 0.5% on the S&P, on the [music]
Nasdaq up by 0.7. Under Savannah's this
morning, finishing the job.
When we feel that they are
for a long period of time put into the
Stone Ages and they won't be able to
come up with a
nuclear weapon,
then we'll leave whether we have a deal
or not. We're finishing the job and I
think within
maybe two weeks, maybe a couple of days
longer to do the job. But we want to
knock out every single thing they have.
Now, it's possible that we'll make a
deal before that. So, here's the latest
this morning. President Trump signaling
the Iran war could end in the coming
weeks saying the US military goals have
largely been achieved and the other
countries should be tasked with
reopening the Strait of Hormuz. To
discuss, Colonel Wayne Sanders, senior
defense analyst at Bloomberg
Intelligence, joins us now for more.
Colonel, welcome to the program. The
answer to the following question is
highly conditional on what you believe
the objectives are, but if you didn't
see that statement overnight, if you
hadn't seen any of the truth social, the
social media posts and you were just
focused on how things were emerging in
Iran and watching the military posture
evolve over time, what phase of the war
would you say we're in right now?
Yeah, right now I'd say we're almost
entering into sustained operations, also
known as like steady state operations
because you have so much firepower that
is already out there, right? You
actually have a third aircraft carrier
that is potentially coming into the
region. Uh normally you have about three
or four that are operationally deployed,
then you have a handful that are in
training uh status as well.
Uh and then a couple that are in
maintenance. So, you're having a large
portion of your forces that are actually
tied in directly to uh to the Iran
conflict. It allows you to have a
network of uh uh of mobile airbases to
be able to conduct uh conduct your
strikes against that. 11,000 targets
have been hit uh across across Iran at
this point in time by the United States,
and they continue to do it. And the
United States military is not going to
stop until they have been ordered to
stop. Right, and we see even last night
a massive port near the Strait of Hormuz
was hit. So, if you ignore everything
that is said to Jonathan's point and
just look at what Trump is doing in
terms of the military buildup, how much
longer do you think the United States
will be in this conflict?
Yeah, when you move that third uh the
third aircraft carrier in there, it's it
it's signaling that it's going to be a
longer-term escalations. It's one of two
things, and it's really only those two
options. It's either I have a surge plan
that I want to do, and he's kind of
alluding to it a little bit now in terms
of almost the final blow that he brought
up last week to be able to hit a lot of
these and, you know, forgive the the
phrase of, you know, bombing them to the
Stone Age, but being able to hit those
military targets to the point where they
wouldn't even be able to get stuff out
of the rubble uh from that perspective.
Or it's signaling that, "Hey, we are
going to be here for a while, and we
want to make sure that we have the
ability to rotate our aircraft carriers,
rotate our air crews uh that have been
surging for the last month so that you
can actually avoid some operator burnout
there." Do both of those plans include
the United States making sure the Strait
of Hormuz is open as normal?
Yeah, I think I think that ends up being
one of the key uh I I call it second and
third order effects uh to what those
military operations are. They've
achieved the the nuclear the the
military operations uh and their
objectives to point now in terms of the
valid military targets, taking out a lot
of Iranian leadership uh as well as
those missile stockpiles and and uh in
nuclear sites as well, right? They've
they've done those pieces of it. Uh but
now at that point in time, you still are
trying to create what they call freedom
of maneuver through the Straits of
Hormuz, uh but you can never eliminate
the asymmetric threat. And you've seen
General Keane talk about that multiple
times during his press briefings as
well, is that you can eliminate as much
as you want as the conventional force,
but all it does is it takes just a
handful of folks that may have a a
shoulder-fired missile or something very
similar to insurgent campaigns back in
2003 uh in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Colonel, this is the reason why people
are talking about some sort of buffer
zone around the Strait of Hormuz to try
to ensure and prevent some of these
rogue attacks. What could a coordinated
UAE and United States effort look like
to try to secure that type of buffer?
Uh I think it would I would definitely
help. Uh freedom of maneuver especially
in the southern part of the strait
actually helps because of UAE's
geographic positioning. It's also one of
the reasons why I think that Iran has
focused so much of their attacks on UAE
specifically uh is because it is such a
a powerful economic uh center as well as
uh has military capability and air
defenses. So, being able to partner with
the US there allows for additional
capability uh allows for additional
visibility through intelligence,
surveillance, and reconnaissance. It
allows us to have a better place for the
United States to be able to uh to park
some additional vessels as well as part
of their US naval port uh at Al Jubail
there as well. Colonel, a clinic. Thanks
for breaking it down. Thank you, sir.
Colonel Wayne Sand is there of Bloomberg
Intelligence. This is the difficulty
right now for financial market
participants. The verbal guidance you're
getting is this could end soon. The
military posture speaks to something far
more prolonged. Yeah, ultimately if
you're moving another aircraft carrier
over to the region and if you're
deploying troops, it all takes money.
That's how it takes a cost. It's not
just simply something that you do just
in case. And that speaks to something
that really speaks more to an escalation
rather than we're almost out. Verbally
they want to kind of control or at least
pause some of the unwinding you could
see what would happen in [music] a war
in the financial markets. But at the
same time, the president wants to be
able to go in and [music] finish the
degradation we've seen with the regime.
Very difficult to do at the same time.
Up next, following a record-breaking
monthly rally in the energy market,
we'll catch up with Adam World of the
Atlantic [music] Council. Plus, Ye-Hwan
has some morning movers for you in the
market. Nike shares sinking with the war
in and around Wayne on guidance. That
name is down by 10%. [music]
Hello April, goodbye March. Good
riddance. Check out the market March
madness. Check it out worldwide. The
Euro Stoxx 50 down 9%.
>> [music]
>> The Nikkei down by 13. The Kospi down by
19. The Euro Stoxx 50, worst month since
2020. Over in Japan, worst month since
[music] '08. Over in South Korea, the
worst month since 2008. It was that bad
for the month of March. This is the
turnaround so far this morning. Over in
Europe, bouncing back on the Euro Stoxx
50 by 2%. [music]
Overnight in Japan, up by five. The
Kospi closing out the session up by more
than 8%. Traders want to pick up where
they left off. Just as sort of a
reference point, this is [music] Stoxx
600 hit a record on February 27th before
this horrendous month happened in April
and March. We had the same with the S&P
closing at a record high on January
27th, and then what? People want to just
erase March from existence and march on.
Can you do that though with some
structural changes even as you do get a
sense maybe [music] there is some
de-escalation.
>> trying to see
trying to move on. We're positive by
about a half of 1% on equity futures on
the S&P 500. On the S&P [music] in
yesterday's session, we closed out the
worst month of the last 12 months with
the biggest one-day gain of the year so
far on the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq,
higher by 0.7% [music] this morning.
Likewise on the Russell. In the bond
market, yields continuing to fall, I
believe for a third time this week,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Yields are
down by four basis points, 428 on 10s,
2s at 376. That's a very different
picture to a week or so ago when we were
talking about the fours and the
potential, I stress the potential
[music]
of rate hikes in our future.
>> face of real inflationary shock from a
prolonged conflict that could leave
[music] oil prices and other commodity
prices at really high levels. I'll just
add that yesterday's jolts data added a
flavor to this of potential weakness.
Hiring has fallen off a cliff. This is
[music] a frozen labor market heading
into a jobs report on Friday that a lot
of people say is irrelevant,
backward-looking, nobody cares. It does
matter to understand how much heat is in
this economy and how much there actually
can be a wage response [music] to some
of the inflationary pressure.
>> There has been a ton of heat in this
energy market. Brent crude absolutely
flying through last month, the biggest
one-month gain we have ever seen
>> [music]
>> in the Brent crude market. There has
been a so-called contract roll, so the
contract we're now focused on in the
Brent futures [music] curve is the June
contract. 103 for that contract this
morning. But if you check out December,
we've crept [music] into the 80s, and
that's the reality check for this oil
market, a shift from the 60s [music] to
the 80s since this war started, looking
out beyond the front end of the curve.
>> There's been supply destruction. There
has been oil production disruption and
gas production. And there's been the
risk premium that Jeff Currie really
brought to our attention of Carlyle
saying ultimately people are going to
pay more for physical goods because of
the risk of getting it around the world
given some of this volatility that we've
seen. [music] Paper market currently is
trading on every single headline. Some
of the ones yesterday were really
shocking that the market viewed as
[music] potentially optimism that the
war maybe was coming to a close coming
from the Iranian president. But further
looking out to all of Lisa's points,
it's actually energy installations that
have been hit. And then it's that
premium that is still in the surface of
not just what's going on in the Strait
of Hormuz, but also what happens
potentially in the Red Sea.
>> Oil holding out to triple [music] digits
so far this morning. 3 hours away from
the up and about. Let's get you some
morning movers, some single names.
Ye-Hwan has more. Hi, Ye-Hwan. Hi, John.
We start with Nike. Shares are falling
10% on the dot this morning after the
company delivered a much weaker outlook
[music] than expected. Nike sees sales
declining this quarter, and it's blaming
the Iran war saying that it's already
seeing uh disruptions [music] to traffic
across the Middle East and Europe. Plus,
tariffs and heavy discounting continue
[music]
to weigh on margins. Uh moving on to the
high-end furniture retailer RH, shares
are falling nearly [music] 20% in the
premarket. The company now sees sales
falling this quarter. That's a big miss
compared to expectations [music]
for growth, and it's also a tariff story
here. Tariffs still [music] biting with
RH saying that those duties cut about 30
million dollars from revenue in the last
quarter. And as optimism grows that the
Iran war could be nearing its end, we
are seeing some pressure on domestic oil
stocks like Occidental down 3% as we see
crude prices falling. But remember,
these stocks have seen a massive run
[music] uh during the war with
Occidental up 20% in the month of March
alone. John. Oxy, one of the best
performers of the last month or so.
Ye-Hwan, thank you. More from Ye-Hwan
later this hour. On a rate down this
morning, President Trump saying military
goals in Iran have largely been
achieved, and operations could soon come
to [music] an end.
We're finishing the job, and I think
within
maybe 2 weeks, maybe a couple of days
longer to do the job. But we want to
knock out every single thing they have.
Now, it's possible that we'll make a
deal before that. The president going on
to say reopening the Strait of Hormuz
should fall on other nations. Elsewhere,
the president delivering an address to
the nation later on this evening. The
White House saying President Trump will
provide an important update on the
situation in Iran at 9:00 p.m. Eastern
Time. And finally, President Trump
making his strongest threat so far to
pull the US out of NATO. Trump telling
the Telegraph that the alliance is a
paper tiger and that withdrawing US
membership is quote beyond
reconsideration.
>> The fact that he was talking to a United
Kingdom paper was interesting to me in
respect with respect to what he's trying
to message. The president speaking is
talking about Keir Starmer being a weak
leader, talking about withdrawing from
NATO, saying you guys aren't coming to
our defense. How much is he trying to
rally popular support in the United
Kingdom to back the US's effort in the
Strait of Hormuz? And how much are we
seeing increasing outreach from this
administration to the UAE, Saudi Arabia,
and European nations saying we need your
help because ultimately there isn't a
lot of political support to pass a $200
billion supplemental defense bill in the
United States. The effort and the
finances have to come from elsewhere.
>> ask Gus for the facts in the recent
reporting with regards to the division
between the Europeans and the US. Spain
closes airspace to US jets. Italy, we
saw the reports yesterday denying
military aircraft permission to land in
Sicily. The UK only allowing US to use
bases for limited defensive action. It's
been brewing across the continent.
>> It's been absolutely brewing brewing and
what you see in Europe is a hardened
stance when it comes to this war
specifically and the help they're
willing to offer the United States. I
think more importantly is less so what
Trump has said about NATO, but what
Secretary Rubio has said about NATO in
the last 24 hours cuz this is someone
who has a very long history of defending
the alliance when he was a senator and
even when he first became Secretary of
State. So yesterday he accused NATO of
being a one-way street in an interview.
And then on top of that, he was the
first one to say and maybe potentially
this is why you had the president in
this interview say the similar thing to
the Telegraph. He said we need to
re-examine the military alliance. So
this has brought forward really some of
the structural issues the United States
has had with Europe, but also how Europe
feels about this war in particular
because they feel like you didn't even
give us a heads-up for this. They should
have been building their stockpiles
especially when it comes to energy and
that is why they are now dealing with
serious domestic issues.
>> Oil down this morning by about a half of
1% on Brent crude oil falling as the
president throws optimism the Iran war
is nearing an end and possibly
withdrawing before reopening the Strait
of Hormuz. Alan Wald of the Atlantic
Council noting potential issues with the
plan writing this would be a terrible
president for the US because Iran is
actually in an enhanced position of
making more money than before and joins
us now for more. Alan, welcome to the
program. The last time we spoke, which I
believe was about a week ago, you said
unless this ends in 10 to 14 days, the
energy crisis is going to approach
severe levels. The president's now
saying it's going to take another 2
weeks potentially. Alan, with that in
mind, what kind of levels are we going
to approach in the next 2 weeks?
Well, if you look at what's happening
already in France uh and and other
countries where they're having runs on
gasoline stations and even gasoline
stations are running dry because um you
know, they're they're putting in these
price controls and that's making
everyone rush to buy. Uh we're we're
really having a severe issues in a lot
of countries that we in the US are quite
insulated from because we're not
experiencing this. Yes, we are seeing
much higher gasoline prices, but uh the
fact that we're not seeing any shortages
is is really um giving us this sense of
of isolation, I think, from the most
important impacts of this conflict.
Ellen, can the strait be reopened or can
you see supplies start to flow through
there if Iran continues to hold on to uh
control of this region? And I ask this
at a time when Qatar is seeing oil
tankers being bombed in Qatari land.
Uh this is a really severe problem
because if the United States ends this
conflict or or declares an end to it
while leaving Iran basically in de facto
control over um passage into and out of
the the Persian Gulf, then we've
actually put Iran in a much better
position than they were in um you know,
before this started because now uh
beforehand they weren't actually
controlling it. It was just this this
threat that they might actually uh limit
traffic or they might threaten the
safety of ships passing through. Now
they are threatening the safety of ships
passing through and it is effective
because tankers are are refusing to
cross because of of insurance issues and
because they they don't want to get hit
by by a drone. Uh and then if we leave,
Iran's basically in a position to say,
"Well, how much are you going to pay us
to leave you alone?" And that is uh
that's a whole new role for this country
and also puts them in the position to to
make more money. Well, when it comes to
the money, Ellen, in the past anytime
the United States offered waivers for
Iranian oil, it was put into an escrow
account and there was it was dictated
that it had to be used for humanitarian
aid for the people of Iran. I didn't see
any of that sort of language in the
general license. So where is this money
going that the regime is making right
now off of selling their crude and the
toll?
Uh presumably it's going straight to
Iran. Um it's not going in dollars uh
because there's still restrictions on on
what kind of currency Iran can use, but
at this point do they really care
whether, you know, Pakistan is paying
them in yuan or not? Uh it's it's going
straight to to the government. Now
because militarily we've hit certain
sites, we've we've hit, you know,
factories where they're making these
these missiles and and drones, they're
not necessarily able to produce more of
it right away, but the fact that they
that they have
this money means that they will be able
to get back to this in the future or
they can funnel it to their to their
proxies. I mean, the Houthis are still a
wild card here that um is is could
completely change uh the situation in
the Red Sea and if they're doing that
with Iranian funds, then um have we
really even um put, you know, anything
in the situation in a in a better place?
I was told once again by a source
yesterday that the Saudis are basically
paying off the Houthis to not get
involved. At what point does that stop?
It stops when they have access to the
Persian Gulf again.
Once they can once they can ship out of
the Persian Gulf, then they don't have a
need to to continue to pay off the
Houthis at at maybe such a such a high
rate.
Ellen, just more broadly, what's Saudi
Arabia's role in all of this? We've
heard from the UAE or at least reporting
from the Wall Street Journal that
they're considering seriously getting
involved in some sort of effort to uh
make the Strait of Hormuz independent
and a free flow for traffic. When does
Saudi Arabia get more intensely
involved?
Uh I think they get intensely involved
as a member of the GCC. Um you know,
this is a waterway that they depend on.
Remember, we've had major major wars at
a much larger scale fought simply, you
know, for for freedom of the seas. This
was something that that Woodrow Wilson
cited when he brought the United States
into World War I. So the idea that that
Saudi Arabia and the UAE and and Qatar
and Kuwait and Iraq want free passage or
freedom of the seas and freedom for
passage through the Strait of Hormuz, a
very basic uh right of nations. And so I
do think that that if there's a
potential for them to make a difference
in securing that, that they will get
involved as uh part of the greater GCC.
Alan, I was going to say it. Thanks for
breaking it down. Alan Wald at the
of the Atlantic Council on the energy
market. In the near term, the market
might be comfortable with this setup cuz
it just wants the energy to start moving
again. Partners in the Gulf won't be
happy with that setup. Not at all. It's
unsustainable for them and frankly it's
unsustainable for the risk premium that
a lot of people are going to have to
charge because if you think that Iran's
going to be in control and you're not
sure how much your government's paying
off the Iranian government, which uh
ship operator is going to feel really
comfortable going through the Strait of
Hormuz? This is the this is the issue
with asymmetric warfare and the reason
why you're seeing reports that make a
lot of sense about the UAE, about Qatar,
about Saudi Arabia getting involved.
>> they backhanded the futures curve. The
long run is starting to be more to 80
than it is to 70.
>> Absolutely. And then right there she
said basically if the Saudis are able to
get back through the Persian Gulf,
potentially the Houthis would be more
inclined to deny the payments and
support the kingdom has given them and
maybe get involved at the behest of
really who's in charge of them and
that's the regime. Brent crude right
now, 103. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg Brief. Yohai Haim has more.
Hi, Yohai. Hi, John. The White House is
discussing the possibility that crude
prices may climb to a record $150
per barrel. That's according to [music]
Politico. Officials are analyzing the
economic effects of higher oil prices
and are weighing ideas to bring down
costs including deploying more emergency
[music] powers.
And LVMH shares having the worst start
to the year on record as the Middle
[music] East war hurts sentiment and
intensifies a demand slump for luxury
goods. Tiffany & Co. owner is set to
report [music] first quarter revenue
later this month.
And a federal judge is pausing President
Trump's efforts to build a new ballroom
at the White House. The judge ruling the
president
>> [music]
>> likely exceeded his legal authority by
overseeing construction of the ballroom.
The judge pushing him to get
congressional [music] approval. That's
your Bloomberg Brief, John. Yohai, thank
you for the update. More from Yohai in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, a first quarter for the ages.
You have the Supreme Court now going to
rule on whether or not we can use
tariffs. Can you believe this? On
Friday, the Department of Justice served
the Federal Reserve with grand jury
subpoenas. There are certainly concerns
about the growth of private credit.
>> The United States and its partners have
launched Operation Epic Fury.
>> Maybe we'll have more clarity in the
next three or four weeks, but [music] we
don't have it right now. Yeah, maybe.
And as Anna of Morgan Stanley I'm next
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> Coming off the back of the biggest
one-day gain since May on the S&P 500,
leaving behind the worst month going
back some 12 months on the S&P 500.
[music]
Equity futures bouncing back. That
bounce continues up by 0.6% on the S&P,
on the Nasdaq higher by close to 0.9.
Under surveillance this morning, the
first quarter for the ages.
You have the Supreme Court now going to
rule on whether or not we can use
tariffs. Can you believe this? On
Friday, the Department of Justice served
the Federal Reserve with grand jury
subpoenas. But there are certainly
concerns about the growth of private
credit in aggregate. Everyone's focused
on these bubble risks. I think the
biggest risk is actually the disruption
risk.
>> The United States and its partners have
launched Operation Epic Fury.
>> Prices went up to send signals to
everyone that can produce more, please
produce more. We don't know how this war
ends [music] yet. Maybe we'll have more
clarity in the next three or four weeks,
but we don't have it right now. So
here's the latest this morning. Global
markets looking to turn the page on a
brutal first quarter that saw one market
shock after the other. Investors hoping
for calmer waters ahead in Q2. Join us
now to discuss Anna Zendell of Morgan
Stanley. Anna, good morning. Good
morning.
>> We have thrown a lot at this market and
this economy. How well have we stood up
to it? Yeah, well I'm really honored to
be on this morning right after you say
it's been the worst month.
Uh so I'm glad that we're closing out
this month. Uh but this has been
extremely volatile and I think uh
investors don't really know what they're
supposed to make of all of this. Is this
temporary? Is it more lasting? I can
tell you that conversations are only
just now starting to change to could
this have a real impact and where can I
sort of hide out during this time?
Whereas it's taken up until now with the
conflict lasting longer and longer and
longer than people thought to for people
to really start to ask, wait a minute,
is this going to be bad? When we say to
the bulls, what is anchoring your view,
they usually have the same answer,
earnings and the outlook for corporate
earnings is getting better, not worse.
What's your view on that and does this
threat threaten to upend that story? You
know, I think I think there are pockets
where earnings can get better, not
worse, but I think that if we think
broadly businesses are not going to have
to absorb the higher cost of energy and
inputs, I mean we know how this works.
It's just delayed. Um but we we aren't
broad sellers of US equities here. There
are pockets that have been oversold
where investors can still get in and and
have a nice upside to that. It's just
that you've got to be a stock picker
here.
Uh and you also need to be maximum
diversified across all asset classes.
This is about risk reduction. We are in
a time where we need to be reducing risk
and it doesn't appear that there's
enough of that going on. How do you
reduce risk when it's unclear what the
bigger risk is, whether it's inflation
or some sort of downturn to growth? I
think the only option is just to be
diversified across all asset classes. So
so um within global equities, you know,
choosing within emerging markets, LatAm
over Asia,
um still preferring US equities over
other global equity markets, but being
diversified across bonds and cash and
real assets and alternatives. And so
it's diversification is really the risk
reduction. How much have longer-term
returns in risk assets, I'm talking
about some of the major benchmarks and
stock indexes and even some credit, been
reduced just simply because we're now at
a higher inflation rate, people are
paying a premium for physical goods and
there's extra policy uncertainty that is
leaving a lot of people without the
appetite to really pay the multiples
that they were paying before. Yeah, well
I think that's what we're seeing in sort
of this volatility of people trying to
find some footing. I and and what and
trying to time the market really, which
is never wise. Just don't try to time
the market. Um and so you you want the
the reason why we always talk about,
which is the most important conversation
to have with an investor, is diversify,
diversify, diversify. It's just that
this environment is just too uncertain.
And I see a lot of disconnects out
there, more so than I think I can
remember in some time in terms of
people's expectations versus what what I
think at least, what we think is likely
to happen. I don't think recession risks
are high enough.
Um I think they're probably 40% odds of
a
over the next 12 months of a recession.
That's uncomfortable. Uh that's really
uncomfortable and I don't think that
that's priced in. I think that the
market pricing out the prospect for Fed
cuts is absolutely ridiculous. I mean
the the Fed is going to respond to what
is going to be a big hit to aggregate
demand for businesses absorbing costs
and for households having to absorb
costs and change behavior. That changing
behavior has a gravitational pull on
inflation. So yes, it stays the Fed's
hand for now. They will be cutting
though because we're going to stop
spending on expensive things and switch
to less expensive things. This is just
tried and true cyclical behavior.
There's nothing that's changed there and
so that's another disconnect that that I
see as well. So I think there's there's
still a reckoning to come and
especially, you know, how can we have
elation over being told the conflict may
last only
two to three weeks more. It's already
lasted weeks and weeks more
than people thought. And so you could
open up the straight tomorrow and have
normal flows, which of course wouldn't
happen. Let's say overnight we get
normal flows.
Impacts are still coming. Mhm. And so I
I just think that we've not braced for
that.
>> When did you start to think this is
going to be have a lot longer-term
impacts? A lot of people in the market
were saying we're going to get through
this in one or two weeks. When for you
was that moment? Well, I think, you
know, one of the the
benefits that I have now being at a
large wealth manager is that we have
access to experts. I mean one, the the
CSIS, the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, never before have
I used them so much. They are an
incredible source of experts on global
global developments.
Um speaking to
uh
Admirals, Admiral McRaven, four-star
Admiral, Admiral Stavridis. These are
people to speak to that have been very
very accurate um when we've had
conversations with them on what to
expect and how long this could last. And
they have been right, but that's not
broadly embraced by
by the market. Anna, it's good to see
you. Yeah. And we'll start at the end
there. Anna Zendell there of Morgan
Stanley. That's been a theme with the
last month. We've seen it continuously
on this program when we've caught up
with CSIS and when we've spoken to
others, too. The specialists are more
concerned than the tourists and I hate
to call them the tourists because we all
are ultimately tourists when it comes to
geopolitical risk. Everyone that comes
on this program with regards to
financial markets a tourist on this. The
specialists are far more concerned about
what they've seen transpire over the
past month.
>> They see physical shortages and they see
more shortages coming down the pike and
Ellen Zendell and others have come on
and seem to indicate they're much more
worried about downside growth risk than
they are inflation risk and I think that
that's really important to keep in mind
because right now that disconnect really
can be felt in the market where both
bonds and stocks are thinking it's more
of inflation risk than it is a hit to
growth.
>> Energy analysts, executives, ministers
behind the scenes immediately told you
this is going to have longer-term
impacts and the market is brushing it
off. But to Jeff Curry's point, you
can't print molecules and at some point
that is going to catch up. Doesn't
matter how much verbal intervention you
throw at it. CHS right now the S&P
positive by
>> 0.6% Coming up next on this program,
we'll catch up with Tom Becker of
BlackRock, Andrew Bishop of Signum,
Susan Bell of Rystad Energy and Admiral
Ha Vandier of NATO [music] and Commander
for transformation. From New York City
this morning, good morning. The third
out of second out of Bloomberg [music]
Surveillance is just around the corner.
>> [music]
>> Energy shocks take time to materialize.
>> Supply shocks create inflation pressures
and that creates upward pressures
[music] on rates.
>> In the worst case, it's not just
inflation, it's growth.
>> We should all be concerned about of are
there cracks in growth that need to be
responded to? Instead of the above trend
growth [music] that we were looking for
in the US, we could see slightly below
trend growth. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with [music] Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz and Anne Marie
Hoerdeman.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second out of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action and scores look
like this. The gains continue to build,
the bounce back and some follow [music]
through this morning. Equities up by
0.7% on the S&P, up by 0.9 on the Nasdaq
and the bond market yields declining for
a third consecutive day on two stands
and 30s. 10-year yield at the moment
look a little something like this. Your
10-year down by three [music] basis
points to 428 and crude shaping up as
follows. Brent trimming a monthly
advance, a record [music] monthly rally.
Brent crude right now down by about one
percentage point to 103 on Brent this
morning. Two reasons for the market move
so far, the president ready to end the
war maybe in a few weeks' time. I I
stress maybe and this story changes
every single [music] day, but some
encouragement from this story from The
Wall Street Journal that the UAE is
preparing to help reopen the Strait of
Hormuz.
>> And this actually is being treated
[music] as a bit more I don't want to
say credible, but realistic in terms of
how this transpires because as we were
speaking with Steve
>> [music]
>> it is just not feasible for the Strait
of Hormuz to remain in Iran's control.
It is not feasible for the UAE, it is
not feasible for Saudi Arabia and Qatar
and frankly for all of Europe and Asia
because it ultimately introduces such a
huge risk premium. Ultimately though, I
come back and I'm thinking to myself,
okay, here we are in April and some of
the big questions. How are we looking
forward? Is this a growth shock? Is this
an inflation shock or is this a blip
that we can just look [music] past as
soon as someone says, all right, it's
over.
>> The market wants two things. It's over
and the hostilities and get the energy
moving again. [music]
How close are we to those two things
this morning? Well, Sultan Al Jaber
who's the head of ADNOC and also UAE
ministers out [music] on LinkedIn today
and he says the world must act together
to protect the free flow of energy and
safeguard economic stability.
Potentially what the UAE is talking
about is a growing coalition between
Arab allies, maybe even some European
allies to come help the United States
open the Strait of Hormuz. And now the
president's going to give this address
today and I think he needs to outline to
the American people what they think the
strategy has been, the wins have been,
but also that how can you leave the this
region right [music] now with the Strait
of Hormuz completely controlled by the
Iranians? They have more troops coming
in, which is why I think it's important
to look at what the president does as
well as not what he says because when he
says he's vacillating between a number
of different options, but what he's
doing has been consistent.
>> constant, troop build-up. We're all
tracking the same thing. Coming up this
hour, Tom Becker of BlackRock with
stocks saying stability to kick off a
new quarter. Andrew Bishop of Signum
Global as President Donald Trump signals
the war in Iran could be nearing an end
and the NATO Supreme Allied Commander
for Transformation, Admiral Pierre
Vandier with allied countries facing
pressure from the administration. We
begin this hour with stocks adding to
the biggest one-day rally we've seen
going back to May of last year. Tom
Becker of BlackRock writing the
following. We remain neutral directional
equities and short duration across
portfolios. Tom joins us now for more.
Tom, good morning. It's the bond piece
of this that I find a little bit more
interesting. You think we're not paying
enough attention to the fiscal risk that
might be building here. Yeah.
>> Tell us why. I think the inflation risks
are are known
and coming into the year inflation was
definitely on an updraft even before
the oil price spike. You had upstream
kind of chips inflation. You had
inflation
in services kind of across developed
markets.
The the fiscal consequences of the war,
particularly for Europe, are are
something that's front and center in in
kind of our research agenda right here.
Because like you say, the Strait of
Hormuz is is really the choke point.
That's much more of a European and Asia
kind of supply chain route. LNG stocks
in Europe are quite low
and Europe comes into this
with a dearth of investment over decades
and so I think this is more exposing
kind of the underinvestment. So we think
there's going to be a fiscal response in
Europe that that markets are under
appreciating. So we've heard this phrase
a few times in the bond market. We've
created value in fixed income. You're
smiling, I'm smiling. I've heard it a
million times. The UK 10-year yield was
the highest since 2008. Over in Germany,
the highest since 2011. In Japan, the
highest since the late 1990s. Is that
not creating value enough for you? I
think if you anchor on the QE era of
yields, it looks optically attractive.
If you think about this post-pandemic
new normal of fiscal, higher inflation,
higher investment globally,
these yields don't look like they're
compensating you for the issuance risk
for the
you know, every every shock we've had in
the last 5 years has been inflationary
into the upside after kind of a couple
decades of shock surprising to the
downside. And we think markets are still
anchored on that kind of ZIRP QE era of
yields.
These real yields are not that
attractive. The German Bunds at 3%
inflation, we saw the data yesterday.
It's it's rising quite quickly
and I and I think what is being
underappreciated are those second-round
effects
as well as some of the consumer
psychology. Fool me once,
shame on me, but I I think coming on the
heels of Ukraine 2022, European
consumers know that there's more
inflation coming. Their behavior is
going to change and I think the ECB is
is tuned into that. I think that this
idea is so compelling and you've been
harping on it for a while and I think
it's been
one of the true transformations that a
lot of people are trying to hone in on.
If we don't have the monetary response
because of inflation,
you don't have the fiscal response
because essentially the more that
nations borrow, the more that yields go
up. How much does it introduce downside
risk to growth that people are not fully
appreciating when it comes to risk
assets? So I think the growth to us is
not is not the challenge here because
you've had a lot of capital destroyed. I
mean, you're just talking about the UAE.
They're going to have to rebuild a lot
of infrastructure.
There's going to be LNG facilities that
have to be rebuilt. Europe is going to
have to harden. So we think the fiscal
response puts a floor on growth.
And so I think that's we're not so
worried about the growth downsides. It's
more that
you keep kind of responding to every
crisis with a fiscal response and
issuing more debt. That's inflationary.
Governments tend not to be the most
savvy price you know, competitors.
They're going to go in and and move
prices up. The US has to rebuild its
stockpiles of interceptors and you know,
we're burning quite a
you know, the run rate of kind of burn
for the military operation is huge. But
then you think about the response that
um
countries with elections have to to kind
of you know, offset some of the the hit
to consumers,
hardening your infrastructure, getting
energy security. All of those to us are
are growth stimulatory, but maybe not
great for for equity multiples.
>> another way to ask this is how
constrained are developed markets from
borrowing more money and actually
engaging in these fiscal support plans?
If you do have people who are saying we
get it. You guys are just going to keep
borrowing and rates are going to keep on
going up. At what point does that
pushback get to be too much for fiscal
authorities? So in Europe with 3% Bund
yields, I don't think there's much
pushback.
So if you look at 5-year 5-year European
markets, they're
a percentage point and a half lower than
UK and US debt markets. So there's no
real term premium in in German debt
markets. So we think that's an
attractive play to place to play
duration from the short side now. If you
think about kind of the US 10-year has
been remarkably well-behaved given this
inflation shock. If you think about
where yields were in January, they're
not that much higher here.
I think part of that is there's been
constrained supply. We just haven't been
issuing a lot more
bonds. The Fed is expanding its balance
sheet again
and and I think people are worried about
these downside risks to growth. We just
don't see it and so we're we're
deploying risk elsewhere.
>> So you're not worried about Germany, the
United States, but to Lisa's point, kind
of a Liz Truss moment. Could you see
that in any other sovereigns? You've
seen glimmers of it, right? Wasn't there
a moment after the Japanese election
where people like, oh my god, Liz Truss
moment. So so like you know, markets are
doing it in you know, for a a moment,
but I think
we haven't seen we haven't seen that
kind of
you know, stock sell-off, equity
bond sell-off and and currency sell-off.
We haven't had that
and and I don't think we're going to
have that necessarily. It's just a grind
higher with each shock moving inflation
and
>> the US 10-year, let's just dial that
pace if we can. 4.28, you are absolutely
right. We are at the upper end of the
pre-war range.
This was it. 4.28. Now with that in
mind, if you go pre-war, a lot of people
came into this year excited about a
cyclical bounce. And this for me and
Lisa and I have been talking about this
a few times in the last week. This for
me is the great contradiction in the
consensus right now. At the start of the
year, everyone's bulled up on a cyclical
bounce. That's the consensus view. The
consensus view now is the economy is not
strong enough to have second-order
inflation effects. Now, can you help
reconcile those two consensus views?
Make sense of that. I I I guess people
just think that the consumers are going
to retrench, but I think we've learned
over the last 5 years the US consumer
wants to spend money and the the
the fiscal consequences of the war we
think are that governments are going to
spend more money. So that's all
stimulatory to growth. IP was picking up
for
data centers. It was picking up, but
also more broadly at the start of this
year. So the ISM kind of moved out of
contraction for the first time in 2
years. That wasn't just data center
builds. That was a more broad lift. And
so I think
last year, if you think if you put
yourself in in the shoes of a US
consumer, tariffs are all the headline.
Do you want to be the fool and go and
buy something when it's tariffed if you
don't know what the tariff rate's going
to be? So services did a lot of the
heavy lifting last year. US consumers
spent money on services. We don't
measure that with retail sales. It
doesn't come out every month. We don't
track it as closely, but US consumers
spent money last year. It just wasn't on
the stuff that they were worried had a
higher tariff price. So we understand
the concern about the bond market.
You've given us a pretty in-depth
framework for that. How are you
deploying capital? How are you taking
risk right now on the long side?
>> Yeah, so over this month you saw a lot
of complacent trades get unsettled. So
people were looking to clip a coupon. A
lot of tourists were in emerging
markets. That was sort of the the trade
of of the start of the year.
And emerging market bond markets really
got rocked at the start of this month.
So we use that as an entry point to to
step into kind of some of the more
commodity exposed countries, Mexico,
Brazil. Yields shot up.
There was an expectation of lots of
cutting. They're still biased to ease,
but now you're getting kind of a couple
hundred basis points of extra yield to
to kind of enter into a country that
that is exporting into this higher
commodity environment. And so the terms
of trade are quite good for them, and we
can get a better entry point. That's one
place,
and then
you know, we we've closed some of the
guilt short. Guilt have moved a lot. The
the BOE pricing has moved a lot,
and so we we bought back some of that
guilt short on on this month's price
action.
>> Tom, Tom, I'm going to say thoughtful
stuff, really thoughtful stuff. Tom back
at there of BlackRock. Whether you agree
or disagree, there are the pockets of
tension right now that we all need to
talk about.
>> Yeah, and the fiscal response I think is
really important. The idea that there's
going to be so much fiscal
infrastructure that has to be rebuilt,
and there's so many countries that are
willing to rebuild it in order to
support their political ambitions that
this is really the regime that we're
going to be in on the rate side.
>> cycle.
>> Yes, it's going to be wild.
>> Just planning around that is just
wonderful, isn't it?
>> Oh, so much fun. Yeah. Bond yields down
for third consecutive day. We're down by
about three basis points this morning,
428, call it 429. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohara has more. Hey
Yohara. Hey John.
President Trump saying the US could end
military operations in Iran in the next
two to three weeks. Trump saying that
the US goals of eliminating Iran's
nuclear program have been completed, and
that he would be willing to end the
campaign even without securing a deal
[music] to reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
President Trump saying he is strongly
considering pulling the United States
out of NATO after it failed to join his
war on Iran. Trump telling the Telegraph
that the NATO alliance is a paper tiger,
and that withdrawing [music] US
membership is quotes beyond
reconsideration.
And the United Arab Emirates is
reportedly gearing up [music] to join
the war. According to the Wall Street
Journal, officials are reviewing how it
could play a military role in securing
the strait. This would make it the first
GCC country to join the fight after
being hit by Iran. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John. Yohara, thank you. More
from Yohara later this hour. Up next on
the program, President Trump setting
[music] the timeline.
We're finishing the job, and I think
within
maybe two weeks, maybe a couple of days
longer to do the job, but we want to
knock out every single thing they have.
Now it's possible that we'll make a deal
before that. Andrew Bishop of Signum
joins us next live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
The bounce continues adding to recent
gains on the S&P 500 up by 0.8% [music]
kicking off Q2 and a month of April
higher by 1% on the Nasdaq 100. Under
Savannah's this morning, President Trump
setting the timeline.
When we feel that they are
for a long period of time put into the
Stone Ages, and they won't be able to
come up with a
nuclear weapon,
then we'll leave, whether we have a deal
or not. We're finishing the job, and I
think within
maybe two weeks, maybe a couple of days
longer to do the job, but we want to
knock out every single thing they have.
Now it's possible that we'll make a deal
before that. So here's the latest this
morning. President Donald Trump
indicating the US could wind down
operations in Iran within weeks. The
White House announcing the president
will provide an update in an address to
the nation later this evening.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall has the latest
right now. Good morning, Tyler.
Hey John, good morning. Well, as
President Trump says that the US could
withdraw forces from Iran within the
next two to three weeks, he also made
clear that he doesn't think an agreement
with Iran is required to end the US
military operation. In fact, he said
that the main goal, of course, is to
ensure that Iran will not be able to
obtain a nuclear weapon with or without
a deal. Still, I was at the White House
yesterday where officials maintained
that negotiations are ongoing. We heard
from Secretary Pete Hegseth Wright who
said that diplomatic talks are quote
gaining steam, but also vowed that the
US will continue to strike Iran until
any such agreement is reached. In fact,
a person familiar with the matter tells
us here at Bloomberg News that the US is
now moving a third aircraft carrier
strike group to the region. At this
point, it doesn't feel like a
breakthrough is imminent. In fact, we
know that one of Iran's top demands is
that they obtain sovereignty over the
Strait of Hormuz. Of course, that's
considered to be a non-starter, but it
is raising questions on what will happen
if President Trump does withdraw US
troops without the Strait of Hormuz
disruptions being resolved. As you will
know and have been discussing on the
program, President Trump is heaping the
criticism and the pressure on allies to
take control of the strait. In a new
interview out this morning with the
Telegraph, he did appear to signal that
he could withdraw the US from NATO over
his dismay of how allies have responded
to his demands when it comes to the
waterway. Plus, pair that with new
comments from the Secretary of State
Marco Rubio overnight saying that it may
be time to re-examine the alliance.
John, as you will know, President Trump
is also facing domestic pressure as
retail gasoline tops $4 a gallon this
week. Politico is reporting new this
morning that the White House is
considering some other emergency options
to tamp down on prices.
Tyler Kendall, good to have you back.
It's good to see you, Tyler, down in
Washington, D.C. More still to come from
Tyler and the team over in Washington.
Andrew Bishop of Signum writes the
following. We find it extremely unlikely
that President Trump would end the war
in Iran without first at least trying to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz. Andrew
joins us now for more. Andrew, welcome
back to the show. How are you preparing
clients for this address later on this
evening?
So unfortunately, I actually think this
address is not going to deliver much
clarity. My my best guess is that we're
going to get a reiteration of all the
same messages,
which is the war's end is coming to is
is getting nearer.
It's not imminent. We will leave as soon
as we've accomplished our objectives.
Essentially, just more of the same. I
think this is the president trying to
reassure the American public in addition
to markets
and buying some time. We do know that
the troop build up does continue though.
What do you think the president's three
main objectives are and the options he
has?
So I think the president's main
objective at this stage is to reopen the
Strait of Hormuz. Hence our skepticism
that he will leave the region without at
least trying to do that.
And this means that in our view, the the
idea that he's going to unilaterally
declare an end to the war and leave with
Hormuz closed is exceedingly unlikely.
Instead, we're at a fork in the road
where you've got either de-escalation
through a deal, which is our base case,
although narrowly so, or major
escalation, and you hinted at troops. I
think that major escalation would entail
boots on the ground, not in Karg Island,
which I think has always been an
overhyped myth, but rather to reopen
Hormuz directly. Andrew, how difficult
is that in terms of communication from
the White House? Their main objective
now is to open something that was
already open before the war started.
The easy way to communicate it is to
deny it, right? So they're just arguing
that that they really don't have to
tackle the problem. That doesn't mean
they don't have to tackle it.
How much is it that the president also
is trying to get allies involved and
trying to force them
to the region to create this coalition?
I think it's that is a huge part of it.
You're absolutely right with the one
twist that I'll mention, which is that
I'm very skeptical the president. I
mean, of course, he would love that, but
I'm skeptical he expects
you know, countries like France, the UK,
Germany, etc. to join in the military
operation to reopen Hormuz. I think what
he's trying to do instead is create a
backup plan where if the US moves into
Hormuz unilaterally and does essentially
the heavy lifting,
he will the US will not have to stay for
the long term because the Europeans take
over from there. Far from guaranteed
that that will happen, but I think
that's the more realistic objective he
has in mind. Andrew, how much have the
comments about NATO's participation and
comments about possibly asking the
the Gulf region to help pay for this
stems from the fact that there isn't
political will right now in Washington,
D.C. to pass that $200 billion
supplemental spending plan for the
Defense Department?
I think very much so, but to be honest,
even if that bill or that supplemental
were to pass, I think the president
would have the same language, which is
always trying to outsource the bill for
better or for worse. I'm not taking a
side on that, but I think this is in
line with his historical pattern and
would be the case no matter what happens
to the US defense budget. Do you think
that there is enough political will from
the conversations that you've had with
strategists in Europe in particular to
join this effort given the hardening
stance in certain places, whether it's
United Kingdom or Spain?
So I think both are true. You are seeing
a lot more progress in conversations
behind the scenes than than is typically
portrayed. It's not true that the
Europeans are doing nothing. The French
have been pretty active. The Brits have
sent delegations to to Tampa, Florida to
discuss this with the US military. So
there is actual real planning going on,
and I think we we will and could we
could and will see a European role
to keep Hormuz open once it's been
reopened if that ever happens, which
which we think it will, to be clear.
However,
again, it's not going to be in a
fighting capacity. We're
we've got to separate out the potential
UAE role, which would be in a fighting
capacity, versus the Europeans' role,
which would be more of a almost like a
peacekeeper rather than peacemaker, if
you will. Andrew, this is not even about
fighting at this point. it's about
airspace. And Spain at the moment, the
Spanish government, the far-left
government, is borderline anti-American
at this point. I'm really struggling to
understand how the US is going to deal
with Europe going forward from this. It
was tense already at the start of the
year, and rightly the Europeans were
very upset by how the US delegation
handled Greenland, particularly on their
visit to Switzerland back in January.
But this is getting worse, not better.
Yeah, I think there are two answers to
that. One is
you know, you've got to separate out the
Spains from the UK's, right? Not all all
countries in Europe are are taking the
French the the the Spanish approach. The
French, for example, have been denying
some overflight, but have been much more
selective.
So the first answer is, you know, Spain
is the extreme example, to to to put it
simply. But the second answer is, yes,
absolutely. The break in in the
transatlantic relationship has been
going on for a couple years.
One could argue has been going on since
2003 in various degrees, and will
absolutely continue. Unfortunately, I
think that is maybe not irreparable, but
pretty close to it. Andrew, it's good to
see you. Thanks for breaking it down.
Andrew Bishop there of Signum on the
relationship and the breakdown of the
transatlantic relationship we've seen
build for quite a while now. Yeah, the
United Kingdom and Spain are two
different countries. Nonetheless, it's
very difficult for the European Union to
act as a cohort if you have Spain with
also the Netherlands and Germany and
France, and there are all these
different competing interests. It's part
of the reason why it's difficult to get
a handle on what the relationship of
NATO will be going forward, what this
means for say Russia and and how they
treat Europe, and what this means going
forward for the Gulf. I spoke to Amos
Hochstein yesterday in Washington, who
is President Biden's chief aide to him,
and he said the issue with Spain is
years in the making, and really for the
US government, it was a problem when
Spain decided to deploy Huawei in their
infrastructure. They have taken steps.
How many times we've seen with this
Prime Minister towards Beijing and
almost shutting their back to the United
States.
>> will be the pushback from the Secretary
Rubios of the world. Why provide a
security blanket for the Europeans that
Spain can take advantage of when Spain
is making decisions like that?
>> That go against the US national
interest, and they would argue against
the interests of US allies and NATO writ
large. And at the same time, what you
hear from Secretary Rubio, like we heard
from him yesterday, when it comes to
Spain and Italy not allowing for the
United States potentially land or use US
airbases, their point is, well then why
do we have them there? I thought it was
fascinating his response to you, Amos
Hochstein, when he said that the US
should not sell sensitive technological
equipment because you just can imagine
that China has a wiretap. I mean, he
went that far. This is a bipartisan
approach to exactly what type of
constraints there could be. It is one of
the reasons why a lot of this is
fraying. To your point, that's from a
Democrat. Exactly. Not a Republican.
Coming up on the program, Susan Bell of
Rystad with crude prices hovering around
triple digits. Plus, Yuhaira has your
morning movers. Nike shares sinking with
the war in Iran weighing on guidance.
That name is down by more than 10%.
Futures positive here by 3/4 of 1% on
the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq, shaping up
as follows. We are up by 1%. The rally
continues. On the Russell, up by 0.9.
Yesterday on the S&P, the biggest
one-day gain we've seen going back to
May of last year, even with [music]
the worst month in 12 months on the S&P
500. In the bond market, twos, 10s, 30s,
yields all over the place last month.
Initially, a big spike higher,
particularly the front end of the curve
as we priced in more inflation, [music]
less easing. Twos got to 4%. They're
down by about 25 basis points from the
highs. 3.76 and down another three this
morning. Chairman Powell anchoring us
anchoring us around the idea that they
won't be doing anything anytime soon.
>> Saying it's a two-sided risk and saying
right now they do not see break-even
rates or inflation expectations becoming
unmoored. That is the potential catalyst
for them to take action. Otherwise,
there still seems to be a Fed looking to
cut rates and potentially may have to do
so [music] based on a downside hit to
growth.
>> Let's finish on energy. Triple digits on
Brent, around those levels on WTI,
pulling back just a little bit. We're
down by, let's call it 2%. The hope, and
I stress the hope for many people in
this market,
>> [music]
>> is that the hostilities will end soon
and the energy will get moving. Some
indicators of that in the last 24 hours.
Right, and maybe the hostilities could
end soon, which right now it is not
happening. To Lisa's point earlier,
there was a tanker by Cutter Energy
[music] that was struck by an Iranian
missile just this morning. They are not
ending, but even if hostilities were to
end, what do you do with the problem of
the Iranian regime saying we are not
going back to normal [music] for the
Strait of Hormuz. Maybe there's a toll,
but maybe not only the toll, but you
have to be from certain countries as
well. So it's not going to be the normal
flow even if hostilities were to end.
>> Brent crude, 102. Let's give you an
update on single names and morning
movers. Two hours away from the opening
bell. Yuhaira has more. Hey, Yuhaira.
Hey, John. We start with Nike. Those
shares down 10 and 1/2% in the premarket
as the company as the company blames the
war in Iran for declining sales. Nike
saying that it's already seen
disruptions to traffic across the Middle
East and Europe, and that contributed to
Nike issuing a weaker-than-expected
[music]
outlook as it also continues to see
weakness in China. Uh meanwhile, moving
on to some sell-side action. We are
seeing Disney shares [music] up 1% in
the premarket after analysts at Raymond
James upgraded the stock to outperform,
citing an attractive entry [music]
point. Disney shares down 14%
year-to-date and down 7% in the month of
[music] March alone as concerns mounted
that visits to its parks could be
disrupted by the war. And we are seeing
Micron shares rising 2.7% in the
premarket, building on yesterday's
[music] gains. But the question is, how
much of this is real and how much of
this is just the broader market [music]
optimism because Micron shares are down
some 25% from recent highs as concerns
continue to linger over [music] its
CapEx plans. Plus, this technological
breakthrough from Google that could cut
memory needs. John. Yuhaira, thank you.
Thank you for the update. On our radar
this morning, President Donald Trump is
expecting to address the nation at 9:00
p.m. Eastern time. The White House
saying the president will provide an
important update on the situation in
Iran. Also, our third US aircraft
carrier heading to the Middle East as
military operations continue. The
carrier expected to take 3 weeks to
arrive as the president signals the war
could be nearing an end. And finally,
the UAE preparing to use force to reopen
the Strait of Hormuz. The Wall Street
Journal reporting officials are actively
weighing military options, including
mine clearance to help secure the
waterway. This underscores what we've
been hearing from a lot of analysts and
investors this morning, which is for the
US to leave this area and leave the
Strait of Hormuz in control of Iran is
infeasible. And frankly, it is
unsustainable for the Gulf Cooperation
Council, which is the reason why the UAE
would be interested in getting involved
as well as Saudi Arabia. How much could
this lead to the next phase of this war
that won't necessarily end, but could
enter a more sustained phase.
>> This report really reflects a lot of
conversations I've been having for weeks
that at some point the UAE would be
willing to get involved, probably more
so as long as there is a coalition. I
really think it's important to go back
and read the opinion piece Ambassador
Yousef Al Otaiba put in the Wall Street
Journal. We want Iran as a normal
neighbor. It could be reclusive and even
unwelcoming, but it can't attack its
neighbors, blockade international
waters, or export extremism. And the
Adnoc CEO today saying Iran's action is
about global economic extortion. They
will not allow it. They are also part of
this body of water. And for them, this
is where the buck stops.
>> is not going to be the new status quo
for them.
At all. At all. And when we talk about
negotiations, I keep going back to it.
Gulf nations have got to say in what
happens here as well. They've got to say
for sure. They've got skin in the game
big time.
>> The United Arab Emirates has gotten hit
the hardest because they're the closest
to Iran. They have been at the most at
risk, and they've experienced the
backlash. I will just say the points
that you raised in the in that editorial
was fascinating given the fact that they
also want to protect their own nations
from getting dragged into a sort of
extremist cycle that they fought hard
and and the entire upbringing of the
economy in that region. They have to
sustain that with peace.
>> They're also a financial hub, and
they're cutting off access to the
regime's access to being able to use
finances cuz of course they are barred
from Swift. It's very challenging. Also,
I thought this was really important.
Emirates Airlines, nationals of Iran are
not allowed to enter and transit. If you
want to go in and out of Tehran, a key
hub, I've been there. A key hub before
you go anywhere else in the world is to
stop in Dubai. Crude prices right now
still around triple digits. On bets the
war may be coming to an end, we're
pulling back just a little bit on Brent
and WTI. Susan Bell of Rystad Energy
writing, without the Strait of Hormuz
reopening, the energy crisis will
deepen. Crude oil and product prices
will continue to escalate until there is
some resolution. Susan joins us now for
more. Susan, welcome to the program.
Let's go with the president's line.
Let's say it goes another 2 weeks and
maybe an additional few days. Where's
this market then?
Well, I mean, if it depends on how the
the conflict resolves. Certainly, the
president is now talking about leaving
the region before ensuring the the
Strait of Hormuz is is flowing normally,
and that really doesn't do much for
energy markets globally. We really do
need to see the Strait of Hormuz
operating like normal for crude oil
prices to begin to return to
more
more sustainable levels. Crude oil
prices right now are at levels that are
very inflationary, and the the knock-on
impacts on product prices are what is
really what's driving
consumers to reduce uh
reduce their spending on on
discretionary items and it has a GDP
impact globally. It's recessionary. Um
and you know, if this ends in 2 to 3
weeks, that is very good news for the
world uh particularly for Asia that's
facing
um
a mounting energy crisis. I think it's
highly unlikely this ends in 2 to 3
weeks though. Susan, let's just stay on
Asia. The shortages that we've been
tracking building over the last month.
Think Indonesia yesterday rationing fuel
and we've seen others do similar things.
Where are we with that? And a question
we've been asking as well, how are you
tracking what happens next in a place
like Europe? Could they be experiencing
this in a few weeks' time?
Absolutely. Uh you know, Asia is hit
hardest in this situation and it started
with petrochemical feedstocks
um
and uh but quickly very quickly moved
into diesel and jet fuel um and it's now
impacting gasoline. Uh gasoline was a
little bit slow to respond, but now we
are seeing that being impacted and we do
expect to see more government-led
rationing
um in Asia. Right now, the measures are
uh you know, it it's uh it's a headline,
but it doesn't have a a truly material
impact on global demand yet. Um but with
the 10 million barrels a day of crude
oil that has been shut in and a couple
of million barrels a day of products
that can't reach the markets anymore, we
will have to see global energy global
liquids demand uh
decline by upwards of 10 million barrels
a day. And right now, we are seeing
about around 3 million barrels a day of
demand destruction and that's largely
focused on jet fuel and the
petrochemicals industry. But uh we need
to see gasoline demand fall. We need to
see diesel demand fall. And
unfortunately, this is going to spread
from the Pacific Basin into the Atlantic
Basin. Uh Europe has 60 to 90 days of
strategic petroleum reserves that they
can release. Uh but beyond that, you
know, if this if this crisis extends
into the summer, then we are talking
about government-led rationing in
Europe.
Susan,
that seems a lot closer than a lot of
people seem to be pricing in. Do you
think the markets are accurately
reflecting how close we are to that type
of rationing?
Um I don't think so yet. I mean, when
you look at the forward curve on crude
oil prices, they still are quite
backwardated meaning the front month is
uh is still very strong relative to the
future months. Um if the market
sentiment was that this war was going to
or maybe not so much the conflict, but
that the strait was going to remain
controlled by Iran and that US allies
were going to be largely shut out of it.
Um if the markets were considering that
in the futures curve, I think you'd see
a much flatter futures curve. Um and uh
uh I I think that there's perhaps a
little bit too much hope in that futures
curve right now.
If this conflict ended in a week, how
bad would the shortages be? And I guess
I'm trying to get a handle on how much
is already baked into the system and is
coming down the pike regardless of how
quickly this issue is resolved and uh
supplies can get moving through the
Strait of Hormuz again.
Right. Uh if this if this conflict ended
in a week and the Strait of Hormuz
started to move, uh Asia is still about
a month away from starting to get normal
flows of crude oil just because of
in-transit times.
Um and uh so Asia would still face some
pretty tight product markets. But uh
yeah, Europe would be in a much better
position. They have adequate strategic
reserves to get through uh through the
next say 2 or 3 months. Um and beyond
that, uh it it turns into a very
significant energy crisis. Susan, thanks
for breaking it down. We appreciate it.
Appreciate the numbers. Susan Bandar of
I Stat on what's happening at the moment
and the cushion Europe still has and
that's the good news. There's reason for
panic. We used that word yesterday in
certain markets because there are real
shortages and you're seeing countries
ration access to these fuels. There is a
cushion still in Europe and you hope you
don't get to the point where it runs
out.
>> So you're saying in June, you could end
up at a place where the government's
rationing how much gets used. Remember
the idea of every other even or odd
license plate getting to fill up on any
given day and so people had two cars.
This is back in the '70s with Carter.
I'm just wondering, you know, if we get
to that kind of point, what kind of
political pushback do you end up getting
as well? How long the Strait of Hormuz
stays open also will determine when all
these Arab countries hit their storage
tops and then at that point, you are
stuck. You have no you have nothing
else, no options available but to shut
in wells. Brent crude right now 101.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hi Yahara. Hi John.
Saudi Arabia's exports of crude oil
plummeting by 50% [music] in March.
Iran's virtual closure of the Strait of
Hormuz forcing Saudi Arabia to divert
crude to terminals across the country at
[music] the Red Sea. About 55 million
barrels of Saudi crude are still
stranded in the Persian Gulf.
An Iranian missile hits a fuel oil
tanker off the coast of Qatar today. A
total of [music] three missiles were
launched from Iran, but two were
intercepted. This as Iran continues to
launch attacks at [music] Israel,
Bahrain, Kuwait, and the United Arab
Emirates.
And President Donald Trump saying
military goals in Iran have largely been
achieved and operations could soon come
to an end. The White House saying the
president will deliver a quote important
update on the situation at 9:00 p.m.
Eastern. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John. Yahara, thank [music] you. Thank
you for the update. Up next on the
program, an alliance under pressure.
That in fact that we can no longer use
those bases to defend America's
interests, that NATO is a one-way
street. We are going to have to
re-examine that relationship. We're
going to have to re-examine the value of
NATO in that alliance. Up next on the
program, the NATO commander for
transformation, Admiral Pierre Vandier,
joins us next from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> The bounce continues adding to gains up
by 0.8% on the S&P up by more than 1% on
the Nasdaq. Quite a rally following the
losses through the month of March. March
madness for global markets. In the bond
market, 2-year, 10-year, 30-year, 2s got
to about 4% at one point. 10s were
looking down the barrel of 450. We're
back from those highs. We're down by
three basis points this morning. 376 10s
at 420.
It feels like there was a great washout.
It is a lot of momentum positioning that
got completely blown out and now we're
looking at the rubble and saying, "Okay,
what is the credible trade going
forward? Do we have clarity?" Well, I'll
let you answer that, but right now, I
think there still are a lot of questions
out there.
>> for clarity right now. I think there's a
lot of hope. A lot of hope that this war
ends quickly and the energy starts
moving again. I've got no idea [music]
how misplaced that hope is. And from an
economic perspective, do we frame the
rest of this year as more of one that
could be beset by a deflation risk
[music] or a downturn and growth risk?
And those two are polar opposites and
that's really the framing that we have
for the market.
>> And you've got these issues, Lisa, that
we've been talking [music] about that
predate this war. AI disruption, private
credit jitters. Those things have been
building now for a while. And a lot of
people have been trying to focus on
those because they can't get their head
around this and it's not exactly
tradable, but good luck trying to get
any sort of clarity on that either.
>> Crude this morning around triple digits.
WTI just below those levels. Let's call
it 98, 99 [music] right now. Brent crude
101 and down on the session by more than
2%. Under Savannah's this morning, an
alliance under pressure.
If now we have reached a point where the
NATO alliance means that we can't use
those bases, that in fact that we can no
longer use those bases to defend
America's interests, that NATO is a
one-way street. When we need them to
allow us to use their military bases,
their answer is no, then then why are we
in NATO? You have to ask that question.
We are going to have to re-examine that
relationship. We're going to have to
re-examine the value of NATO in that
alliance.
>> [music]
>> Here's the latest this morning. The
president slamming NATO telling the
Telegraph he is strongly considering
pulling the United States out of the
alliance as members refuse to join the
war with Iran. Joining us now is Admiral
Pierre Vandier, the NATO commander for
transformation. Admiral, welcome to the
program, sir. I'll share with you what
the president said to the Telegraph. In
their story this morning, they say the
president was asked if he would consider
reconsider the US's membership of the
alliance after the conflict. He said,
quote, "Oh yes, I would say it's beyond
reconsideration. I was never swayed by
NATO. I always knew they were a paper
tiger and Putin knows that too, by the
way." Admiral, what's your reaction to
that quote and what's the future of this
alliance?
So, thank you for having me. It's the
first time I'm on US TV on live. Uh so,
I'm very happy to be able to share some
comments with you. So, you will clearly
understand that we the military are not
uh
maneuvering on the political level. So,
I will not comment uh this this this
debate which is a strong one um which is
about the the transatlantic links and
how the the things go on the political
side. I think what what we have in front
of us is um is a world where uh the
crisis is not anymore the good
understanding of how the things are
going. Uh it's much more a question of
shock. If I may compare um
an image, um a a crisis is when your the
the the the tires of your car are flat.
Uh
a shock is when you hit a tree. We we
are in a world where hitting trees now
it's a new normal. And I think for an
alliance, it's a strong a strong
challenge to be able to adapt at very
high speed to these shocks.
Admiral though, this goes beyond just
politics. This is about operational
issues for the alliance. When the UK
only allows the US to use bases for
limited defensive action, when we see
reports that Italy is denying a military
aircraft permission to land in Sicily,
and you have the US questioning whether
they should even have bases in those
places if they can use can't use them.
The question still remains, what is the
future of this alliance? From an
operational standpoint, what is the
future of this alliance?
I think that the strength of the
alliance is to have having been able
during more than 70 18 years to discuss
and to find a way together.
It's the consensus. It's an alliance
which is not driven by majority, but by
consensus. And so that means that you
have a unique place in the world where
you have 32 that discuss at political
level on a daily basis. And so I know
that since this war is going on in
Ukraine, there are very intensive
discussion at NATO level. It's not only
the nations themselves one by one with
the US. It's it's all together in the in
the NAC. It's the NATO North Atlantic
Council where this discussion occur. And
I think it's a strength for the West.
It's something we need never to neglect
is the fact that we are together. We are
committed by bonds. And so we need to
there are always
tensions. It's not the first time,
but we need to solve this as united
alliance.
Admiral, can the alliance exist though
without the support of the United
States?
This is a great question. So Mr. Trump
during the Lahey summit
last summer,
he achieved to um
to to ask to the allies to spend 3.5% of
their GDP for their own defense. That
comes by the fact that the US have other
priorities. They are not only focused on
Europe and the crisis in Iran is a good
demonstration of what they say. So it's
a moment for European to stand up and to
do largely more than they have been
habitated to
they they they did before. During the
during the post Cold War decades, the
Europeans have been somehow
the free riders of their own security.
Today there is a great change and now we
need to ramp up in all the mains and to
be able not to do without the US, but
largely with
smaller force of the US given the other
commitment these
US forces have over the world. Admiral,
is it ability or will to potentially
help the United States when it comes to
reopening the Strait of Hormuz? I was
struck by the UK defense secretary
minister in an interview really
struggling to answer basic questions
even about how many frigates the US has
the UK has presently at the moment.
So there is a we inherit a 30 years of
disinvestment in all domains, in the
industry, in the weapon stock buys,
in the in the military, in the number of
soldiers. So it's not by a flick of a
switch that we will change that. That
means strong long-lasting commitment
from the Europeans to be able to ramp
up.
So we we inherit a very bad situation
and I think it's time now to wake up.
Given the fact that there is a a lot of
questions right now about the US and the
US's role with NATO, how likely is it
that in five years NATO will still
exist?
>> [clears throat]
>> It's a very political question. I think
we we not kill
we inherit a system which is a good one.
In fact, in other parts of the world, I
think most of the allies we discuss with
especially in the Pacific, they are
saying we we should have something that
looks like NATO. So NATO is how it is.
It's it's it's a big organization, but
it's a one where we discuss on every
day. You have more than 12,000 military
that on a daily basis they work on
plans, they work on interoperability,
they work on training, they work on
concepts. So this is gold in the in our
hands. And so I think it's a moment
where we need to have a cool hands and
not saying okay because there is a
crisis we will kill the baby. I think
it's a moment we we we have an heritage.
We have we have something that works.
I think it's a moment where all the
stakeholders need to be responsible.
They need to
they need to say okay, what we inherit
and with this
this this alliance, I think there is a
lot to do still
and killing it will not make the the
world safer.
There was some questions about the fact
that missiles were lobbed at Turkey from
Iran and that this potentially could
engage NATO more directly in the
conflict. What's your response to that?
So some measures have been taken by
secure. It's
the US General Greenewich which is in
charge of that kind of answers.
And so he has taken measures in order to
be sure that the NATO AOR so area of
responsibility is well protected against
the the will of Iran to spread the
crisis outside of its borders. Admiral,
before you go, can I get clarification
on something? Can you confirm whether
Iran did try to strike the Diego Garcia
base in the Indian Ocean because we're
still trying to gauge what their their
range actually is. What do you know
about that?
So it looks like they have tried to send
a
three-stage ballistic missile which is
much more looking like a commercial
rocket. I think it was it was a
messaging. And they are trying to
demonstrate their their
their ability to to expand and to spill
the crisis out of outside the Middle
East. It's their strategy.
And so I think it's a moment where back
to the islands, it's a moment where I
think we we need to show that we are
united.
We are committed to defend 1 billion
plus citizen over the world and not kill
the baby at a moment of tension which I
fully understand. Admiral, thanks for
making time for us this morning. Very
sensitive moment and we appreciate your
time, sir. Thank you. The NATO commander
for transformation Admiral Pierre
Vandier on the future of this alliance
and the operational difficulties at the
moment. Yeah, and how difficult it is
right now to see the future, but
continuing to reiterate the message that
they're stronger together given the
alliance in the past. Also interesting
he said time is now to wake up. How many
times have we heard that from NATO and
from European officials about how they
need to really reinvest in their
industrial base. Coming up on the
program, we'll catch up with Liz Ann
Sonders and Kevin Gordon of Charles
Schwab, Yelena Shulyatyeva of the
Conference Board, Nouriel Roubini of
Roubini Macro Associates from New York
City. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
Some of these unwinds have been
technical and mechanical.
>> The equity markets, guys, don't seem to
be overly concerned.
>> Is there opportunity in the market? I
think absolutely.
>> The market will not wait for clarity.
The market is just looking for are
things getting less [music] bad?
>> We kind of have to take it one day at a
time.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores and the price action
looks like this. Equity futures on the
S&P adding to yesterday's gains, the
biggest one-day gain on the S&P we've
seen [music]
since May of last year, up another 8/10
of 1% on the S&P on the Nasdaq up by 1/4
percentage point. [music] In the bond
market, unwinding the sell-off of last
month, that continues for a third
consecutive day, yield to lower down by
four on a two-year to 3.75. In the
commodity market, crude trimming a
record monthly advance, bringing crude
back to 101, WTI [music] at 98. And the
market getting everything it wants to
hear right now. The president talking up
ending [music] hostility soon. And in
the Wall Street Journal this morning,
the UAE reportedly gearing up to get
involved to reopen the Strait [music] of
Hormuz. So ultimately, this is a market
that wants to rally and it's trying to
reset after a pretty miserable March.
And a sense that maybe there's cleaner
positioning now for them to take some
[music] wagers. Big questions remain, of
course, not to mention just how much
these talks are ongoing, what the path
of the conflict will look like, but also
will this ultimately prove to be a blip?
Will it be an inflationary shock? Or
will it be some sort of hit to growth?
And those are different parameters that
people are trying to work through.
>> take the two main headlines today, one
is the president's going to give this
speech this evening. I was told it's
going to be the Academy Awards of verbal
intervention. And he's talking about two
to three weeks time frame. At the same
time, the UAE is talking about we are
going to potentially get involved, we
are ready, [music] and we want to be
part of a broader coalition really when
it comes to reopening the Strait of
Hormuz. What that says to me is escalate
to de-escalate
>> [music]
>> in the next two to three weeks. So
potentially there is going to be a
little bit more of kinetic movement on
the ground, especially as you see the
continuation of troop troop build-up. I
know that Monday feels like a lifetime
ago, but on Monday, which is only two
days ago, the president came out and
said that if they don't reopen the
Strait of Hormuz, they'll be bombing
energy [music] infrastructure. That was
Monday. Tuesday, the story complete
opposite of that. And are you really
convinced that you know what's going to
come later on this evening cuz I'm not.
What happens at 9:00 p.m. when we get an
address to the nation? Everyone's very
excited to find out. There has been a
sense of frustration with headline
[music] diplomacy and headline trading
given the fact that it's been all over
the place. That's why people are
watching the troop build-up. That's why
people are watching some of the
connections between the UAE and the just
the GCC more broadly. Bigger picture
stories, everyone's looking at what the
structural change could be because you
can't analyze this. This is not a
tradeable kind of headline roulette that
we're playing here. But this is on
purpose. The president is keeping
optionality one for himself, but also
how many times they talked about he
liked this idea of surprise. [music]
Axios spoke to an administration
official who said this, "This isn't 3D
chess. It's 12-dimensional. He
contradicts himself regularly, so nobody
knows what he's thinking. [music] It's
on purpose." The question that a lot of
people have is, "Does he even know
exactly what his plan is?" Just in the
trading week just feel like one long
day. This starts on Sunday evening and
ends on Friday. And you get one day off
and it's Saturday. And you feel so
>> That's not even a day off. You're
covering Trump, it's not a day off. So,
12-dimensional chess or a scribble that
you're trying to follow cuz that kind of
was what my mind feels like right now.
>> Six-day trading day. Yeah. It's very
strange. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Liz Ann Sonders and Kevin
Gordon at Charles Schwab following the
best day for equities since May. Yelena
Shulyatyeva of the Conference Board
reacting to fresh jobs data and Nouriel
Roubini of Roubini Macro Associates with
investors awaiting President Trump's
evening announcement. No doubt Nouriel
would cheer us up a little bit later. I
would say though that he's been more
upbeat than most more recently.
>> not kidding. This sort of gloom and
doom, Dr. Doom has turned into Dr.
Optimism about how everything's going to
be better on the other side. So, maybe
he will cheer us up. We'll catch up with
Nouriel a little bit later this hour. We
begin this hour with stocks rising on
renewed hope for an end to the war with
Iran. Liz Ann Sonders at Charles Schwab
writes in the following, "This is a
classic oversold bounce. The key to this
rally will be quality from a breadth
perspective." Joining us around the
table, this is special. I'm pleased to
make this happen. The Schwab Equity
Strategy team, Liz Ann Sonders and Kevin
Gordon. Liz Ann Kevin, good to see you
both. Nice to see you both.
>> Thanks for making this happen. Yeah,
thank you. You're exhausted. Did you
enjoy Q1? Uh no. No? Is it actually
over? I'm still wondering.
>> It's official, it's over. Welcome to Q2.
April Fools. What did we learn in Q1?
Well, one of the things that we wrote
about in our 2026 outlook was that
uncertain was too simplistic a word to
describe the backdrop that unstable was
a better way to describe the backdrop. I
don't think that changed at all
throughout the course of the first
quarter. And I think the way to think
about at least to your point before is
how difficult it is to trade,
particularly around how quickly
narratives can change and what social
media posts are going to say. I think
the way to think about and attempt to
navigate this environment is what is
positioning because that we can that we
can measure, we can gauge. You look for
where the crowded trades are, where the
desolate trades are. I think that's a
lot of the short-term money. That's how
they're navigating this is they're
they're trying to either press from a
momentum perspective certain trades or
try to decide whether maybe you're going
to get an inflection point and you'll
see a move in the opposite direction.
That's the best you can try to do to
glean movement is understand
positioning. Can we stay on one
particular narrative that's come up
continuously over the last month is that
we've priced this energy shock, the
biggest monthly rally we've ever seen
for Brent crude, and yet somehow equity
investors were looking through a lot of
this. They were more comfortable that we
weren't priced for the growth downturn
or at least the threat to growth that we
could see in the next several months. Is
that a fair take, a fair narrative from
what you see beneath the surface? I I
think it is a fair narrative and I think
it has a lot to do with the expectations
for earnings growth, which have not
deteriorated. And
uh whether or not we just haven't seen
analysts make those relevant adjustance
for industries that are energy
intensive. We know that it's mostly just
energy and tech that has accounted for
the rise in earnings estimates. Energy
for very obvious reasons. Tech actually
concentration in just two stocks. Micron
and Nvidia were a big part of that
upward move. I just think analysts,
because of how uncertain this is and how
much volatility there is in terms of the
narra- I think they're just kind of
stepping back, waiting till it's either
closer to earning season or until they
get more color from companies and then
can make those appropriate you know,
rest of year adjustments to estimates.
In the meantime, Kevin, I just wonder
what you glean from the idea of whether
this potentially could be inflationary
if you do have the resilience that John
was talking about in the underlying
economy as seen by some of the earnings
expectations or potentially a hit to
growth that just hasn't been reflected
yet by said earnings expectations.
>> mean it's it's both. I mean that's an
uncomfortable situation to be in, but I
think you know, the inflationary impulse
what I find a bit interesting and what
seems to be a little bit too sanguine in
terms of what consensus is thinking
about inflation and this just being a
headline inflation issue. I think the
war itself is certainly that, but the
problem is is that we had a lot of
inflationary pressure before the war in
advance of this coming into it. I mean
core PPI at an annualized pace over the
past few months has been running, you
know, north of 7% now. So, you had some
of these pressures building up already.
So, I think that from an inflationary
standpoint, it's not to me something
that, you know, puts a hike on the table
for the Fed for instance in in the
summer. I think that's still a little
bit too aggressive, but I do think that
there is a little bit, you know, a
little bit too lax thinking around some
of the inflation pressures that had
already existed that predated the war.
And then now you add in the growth
stamp, you know, the growth perspective.
You know, one of the the things we
pointed out that's been, I think, a
really important distinction between now
and 2022 cuz that's the last time we had
an energy shock while we were a net
energy exporter. So, it's really the
only historical comparison you can use.
But back then, nonfarm payroll growth
was running above 5% year over year.
Today it's barely above zero. So, the
growth, you know, risk is is certainly
more protracted, I think, to the
downside. You do have elevated risk
relative to where you were several years
ago. That's why I think this environment
becomes so difficult, but adding on to
that difficulty is the fact that the
most high-frequency labor indicator we
have for the broad US, initial jobless
claims, those have rolled over since the
start of the war. So, you haven't yet
seen the company reaction function for
corporate America to be, "Let me just
lay off a bunch of workers because of
this."
>> enough information though already in the
pipe to say the broadening out isn't
going to happen? That ultimately is is
really concentrated in a couple of
sectors like energy and like tech. Well,
I think I'll just say that what's
interesting, you you talk about sort of
the kind of investor reaction to this so
far and why markets haven't gone down as
much, at least in the US, as people
would expect for for this kind of
conflict. There was a fair amount of
de-risking heading into this, especially
within the tech sector. When you look at
retail positioning in particular, flows
out of that sector for that retail
cohort were pretty extreme, had gotten
even more extreme in March. But in
January and February, you would already
started to see a lot of that come back
in. Very different than what you had
seen in the past couple of years where
it was the sort of knee-jerk reaction on
the part of retail investors and traders
to sort of step into tech anytime it was
selling off. So, that rotation didn't
really change and I think that has
implications certainly for for tech
becoming a potential leader again
because it's also not immune to this
crisis.
>> Yeah, and Lisa,
this is not abnormal to have a period of
volatility like this driven by
geopolitical crisis or otherwise where
you see things like what we've seen in
the last month, one month realized
correlation going up. Um I think
whatever when this is over looks like,
whatever that looks like,
I I think there still is a case for the
market becoming a little broader again.
I think we're in the kind of backdrop
where monolithic decision-making, mag
seven type decision-making doesn't make
a lot of sense in this environment. That
we are to some degree reconnecting
fundamentals to prices. Prior to this
conflict, you had seen a huge drop in
correlations, a huge increase in in
dispersion. I think we could veer back
in that direction, but it would require
us going back to whatever a sense of
normalcy as it as it relates to the war.
But to Kevin's point, Liz Ann, the
markets have been holding in. A lot of
this, is it propped up by verbal
intervention from the White House? Well,
maybe at the index level, but this is
something we've been writing and talking
about a lot. We've talked about it last
several times.
Uh you know, S&P at the index level
didn't hit correction territory on a
maximum drawdown basis, stopped at just
around 9%. But the average member
maximum drawdown within the S&P
year-to-date is -18%.
It's -33%
for the Nasdaq. So, you have to peel at
least one layer of the onion back to see
what's going on under the surface. And
that churn and rotation is where you've
had the corrective phase. It's just
happened via that process as opposed to,
you know, the Nasdaq falling by 33% all
in one fell swoop. Kevin, you
experienced the 2020 shock and you
talked about the difference between now
and then. You also experienced what
happened last year. What's the
difference between the drawdown we
witnessed last month and what happened
in April of last year because I can tell
you a lot of people have come on this
program itching for a repeat to play the
repeat of April of last year. How
different is this? Well, it's already
different in the sense that, you know,
this this sell-off has been, I think
it's 45 days old at this point. In terms
of the percentage decline relative to
April 2025, that's only half the
drawdown. Yet April 2025's drawdown was
34 days long and then it was over. I
think the difference with this and the
reason that is is it is sort of this
grind lower is the fact that this is
more of a sort of direct-to-consumer
shock. Liberation Day was more of a
direct-to-business shock. When you think
about businesses having to face that
higher import cost first and then
figuring out how to pass it on to
consumers if they were going to do that.
This time is much more visceral and
direct in terms of higher gasoline
prices and then you probably see, you
know, a bit of a quicker pass-through to
to goods prices because of higher fuel
costs. So, I think that's one of the
reasons in trying to now figure out how
much of this is a is a sort of a hit to
growth over time. And that to me is more
consistent with how the equity market at
least has responded so far.
>> Stuck with the taco phrases as well. I I
never liked it to begin with, but
obviously on this occasion as many other
people have said, it takes two, three,
four different people this time around,
different parties. And with within Iran,
it's more than one party. It's multiple
leaders within Iran as well to taco.
It's not the correct framing and one of
our guests said that. It just there is
nothing to chicken out of and it's not
actually a phrase that is relevant here
given the fact that there are more
people and given the fact that it's not
as if you can and press pause and rewind
like you could with some of those
tariffs. I mean Trump even said this in
one of his Oval Office press briefings.
He said, you know, it takes two to
tango. And at this point it actually
takes more. I mean, do we even actually
know who this administration is properly
dealing with in Tehran? No, not clear.
>> No. No. Um we have an advance to that
for a number of weeks now. This is
special. Let's do it again soon. Very
cool. Liz Ann, thank you. Appreciate it.
Kevin, thank you. Liz Ann Sonders there
and Kevin Gordon of Charles Schwab.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide. Let's get to your Bloomberg
Brief. Yahaira Has more. Hi Yahaira. Hi
John.
President Trump saying the US could end
military operations in Iran [music] in
the next two to three weeks. Trump
saying that the US goals of eliminating
Iran's nuclear program have been
completed and he could be willing to end
the campaign even without securing a
deal to reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
An Iranian missile hit a fuel oil tanker
off the coast of Qatar today. A total of
three missiles were launched from Iran
but two were intercepted. This is Iran
continues to launch attacks at Israel,
Bahrain, Kuwait and the United Arab
Emirates.
And the White House is discussing the
possibility that crude prices may climb
to a record [music] $150
a barrel. That's according to Politico.
Officials are analyzing the economic
effects of higher oil prices and are
weighing ideas to bring down costs
including deploying more emergency
powers. [music]
That's your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Yahaira, thank you. I never know what to
what to do with those stories because
obviously someone's walked [music] in
and given them a massive range of of
estimates for crude over the next 12
months.
>> have our own reporting from last week
from the team down in Washington that
the Treasury Department was already
modeling as high as $200 a barrel. As
they should. This is what happens when
the Strait of Hormuz is closed and then
potentially you have to add in the
Houthis. You're going to see prices
elevated higher for longer.
>> most teams on Wall Street going through
different scenarios. It's just that when
you get reporting like that suggests
that this is what the president thinks
crude is going to hit at any given time
and
>> [music]
>> they're not telling you. Yeah. My
question is why didn't they do this five
weeks ago? Because then maybe we could
have gotten ahead of this. Just saying.
Up next on the program. We'll get you
some morning calls. Plus Yelena
Shulyatyeva of the Conference Board with
fresh jobs data on deck. That
conversation up next. From New York City
this morning. Good morning.
We're sort of signaling caution here. We
have not added to equities. We're
keeping our forecast [music]
in place at the moment. Now we've got
earning season coming up
in another 10 days or so. It's going to
be great. Our guidance might [music] be
more conservative and that that's
probably not good for the market. That
was Stephen Auth of Federated weighing
in on this market. We just got an upside
surprise on ADP, 62K. The estimate was
40. That's good news. We'll get to that
in just a moment. [music] Equity futures
holding onto the highs up by about 3/4
of 1% on the S&P and the Nasdaq up by
one percentage point. In the bond market
yields are erasing some of this
morning's decline. On the 10-year we're
down by [music] still two to three basis
points. Let's call it 429. And a quick
update on crude. Crude at the moment
down by 2%. [music] 102 on Brent. WTI
around 99. That's the price action.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up Morgan Stanley cutting its price
target on RH highlighting near-term
supply chain disruptions. That name
hammered in the pre-market. Your second
call from Raymond James upgrading Disney
to outperform believing shares are quote
historically cheap. Stock is up by
[music] more than 1% this morning. And
your third and final call from JP Morgan
downgrading Nike to neutral noting
turnarounds quote take time. Nike right
now [music] down by 11%
in early trading. Let's turn back to
that data. An upside surprise on ADP.
Mike McKee's got the details. Morning
Mike. Good morning, John. Well, it's got
to trade on something Wednesday so we
present ADP 62,000 as you mentioned
after a revised 66,000 in the month of
February. Does this mean much? We're not
really sure because the
ADP folks found 66,000 last month while
the nonfarm payrolls number for private
sector jobs was down 86,000. But it is
something that people like to trade on
and take a look at. So here's some of
the numbers underneath. Manufacturing
loses 11,000 jobs. Construction gains
30,000.
Leisure and hospitality just 7,000 jobs
created but transportation, trade and
utilities lose 58,000. An interesting
mix. They also track pay. Job stayers
get 4 and 1/2%
pay raise during the month. Job changers
get a 6.6%
raise during the month. It is going to
be very interesting to see what we get
from the ISM employment numbers coming
up at 10:00 this morning. And of course
in just a few minutes we get February
retail sales. So something to trade on
if you're tired of trading on oil. Mike
McKee, thank you, sir. Thanks for the
update. That's what we like to see. That
difference between wages, wage gains for
your current employer and what an
alternative employer might offer you. If
you switch jobs, if you leave, you get
paid more money. It just keeps the
pressure on the employers to make sure
they keep people happy and pay That's
what we like to see. That's what we like
to see.
>> you like to say? Come on. Carry on.
Ask for a raise.
>> to see that gap.
I like to see that gap. It speaks to a
little bit of tightness in the labor
market. Some demand for an employers.
Both.
Honestly, this to me highlights why
people are worried about inflationary
shock. It doesn't really speak to any
kind of doubt. Don't give up, Bremo.
What Steve Englander doing yesterday
over at Standard Chartered?
>> He said he wasn't going to ask for a
raise. I heard
that. That's ridiculous.
>> For a raise. I was like I'm so happy I'm
not in the studio. That would have just
put put me off that.
>> Imagine how happy Bill Winters will be
with that, you know. That's what they
want. People to feel like they're Okay.
All right.
>> Yelena Shulyatyeva of the Conference
Board joins us now. She asked for a
raise. It's good to see her. She
deserves one. Yelena, good morning.
Thank you so much. But that's not what
people are doing according to the latest
JOLTS report. They're not quitting,
right? So that means they're sticking
and
well, probably they're asking for a
raise but they're not voting their feet.
Begs the question. How tight is this
labor market?
>> [gasps]
>> I think [snorts]
it depends. Sorry to give you the You're
an economist. I expect it. Please do.
>> Yeah, sure. But it depends on which
indicator you look at. If you look at
certain indicators that will tell you
the labor market is super tight. There
are labor shortages in certain
industries. But on the other hand, you
know, like you look at
flows, you look at different things, you
know, it it's really
some people are struggling and to find a
job. Look at the consumer confidence
labor differential. People are saying
it's very difficult to find a job,
right? And that's why they're not
quitting. So this ADP report comes in
stronger than expected. Yesterday we got
the JOLTS data and as you mentioned and
you saw the quits rate fall and and
that's a significant warning flag. Also
the hiring has been falling off a cliff.
You have not seen active hiring in a
mass scale despite this ADP report. Is
there any sense that that's shifting
around given kind of some of the tea
leaves that we might be getting from
ADP? I don't think so and I think that
given the data on the eve of the Iran
conflict people are actually very
confused and uncertain and I think that
hiring rate
will remain low
for the foreseeable future until we
figure out what is going on and how that
affects consumer spending going forward.
I think we will see a little bit of a
demand shock from what is going on with
oil prices. It's it's already been a
shock. It's not that, you know, ending
the war tomorrow will just put things
back where they were back in February. I
think we already going to see a
significant impact on growth. We got
consumer confidence data yesterday that
actually exceeded expectations which was
something of a surprise because it
included the period of the war. Do we
have a sense based on the survey period
of just how much people's consumers'
perception of their current and future
circumstances have changed? So in terms
of the consumer confidence index, it it
did cover the
the long duration in in March. Actually
it was one of the longest survey periods
for the preliminary survey ending in on
the 24th of March. So I would have
expected it would have picked it up but
it didn't even though it was all across
different other measures in the survey.
Inflation expectations jumped. Interest
rate expectations increased and stock
market expectations plunged. There were
a lot of writings in the survey that
mentioned the Iran conflict and high
prices and so on and so forth. So I
think you really need to think about
what consumers will do, not what they
say. We always talk about it here. So
it's very difficult to capture that in
the moment. But I think that we will see
a significant hit to consumer spending
this spring and going into the summer.
Is that because they're fearful of
prices going up or they're actually
feeling the prices going up immediately?
Absolutely. They're feeling the brunt
before the conflict started. Disposable
personal income which is essentially
income adjusting for inflation and taxes
was already slowing. It was close to
zero in the fourth quarter of last year.
So just, you know, adding more inflation
to the picture is not going to help and
I think that consumers will step back.
Let's pretend that we don't have a
leadership issue with the Federal
Reserve. We do but let's pretend we
don't.
What's your expectation for what this
committee can deliver in the next nine
months? Well, it's very easy to say what
they will do in the next couple of
months and, you know, like through the
summer, probably nothing. It's very
difficult to say what happens after
that. And it it is really a question of
which one will be bigger, the heat to
demand or
push to inflation. And I think it will
come essentially to where inflation
expectations are. And this is what
they're watching. And I think, you know,
if anything, if you ask me, the next
probably the next move is a cut. Yelena,
it's good to see you. My pleasure.
>> Yelena Shulyatyeva there at the
Conference Board on the next move for
this Federal Reserve. Things get harder
and harder as the months go by for that
committee. Yeah, especially given the
fact that it is a two-sided risk as they
say. Some people are worried about the
inflationary impact because of the fact
that consumers are holding in and what
Americans do is they go out and shop
when they're worried about things, which
tends to be why that's always been
surprising. At the same time, when you
look at five-year five-year forward
break-even rates, those have fallen to
some of the lowest rates you've seen in
about a year if not more. That's what
the Fed's watching.
>> And that ties into the story right now.
Coming up next on the program, breaking
retail sales data. We'll catch up with
Siturita Gidali Forrester in just a
moment. Ask for a raise, keep the
confidence.
Everyday. Thank you for the Thank you
for the Never give it up.
>> self-confidence
>> to the Steve Englands of this world.
Back yourself. Ted talk [music] by Ted.
>> You know, there you go.
So, we're 60 minutes out from the open
and bound. This is how the stage is set.
The price action looks like this. We're
firmer by 7/10 of 1% on the S&P, up by
1% on the Nasdaq. Just got data moments
to go. Upside surprise on ADP, 62K. The
number that we were looking for in our
survey was 40K. Hardly talked about the
payrolls report all week, which is kind
of funny, right? Used to be the big
number of the week and now it just feels
dated and a bit mushy.
>> Well, it still will be the number, which
is why we'll be coming in. But right
now, the labor market, how much is that
really going to change based on what's
happened since then?
>> How much momentum was there going into
this [music] war? How much momentum was
there for the consumer and consumer
spending? Let's get to retail sales.
Mike McKee's got that number for you
now. Morning, Mike.
Good morning, Joe. Well, this would have
been a very interesting report if not
for that war thing because this is
February data, so it's before the war
started.
Retail sales, the advanced headline
number comes in up 6/10 of a percent
better than forecast and certainly
better than the negative 2/10 that we
had in January,
revised now to negative 1/10. Ex-autos,
it's up half a percent and ex-autos and
gas,
up by 4/10 of a percent. sales control
group, the part that economists always
look at cuz it goes into GDP, is up by
half a percent. That's versus a 2/10
rise in the month of January. So,
overall, a little bit better news than
we were expecting from February, a bit
of a rebound from January, but we're
still not able to tell a whole lot out
of this because basically these are
February numbers. So, let me get you the
breakdown and we'll see if anybody is
noticing in the markets. Mike McKee,
thank you, sir. In the equity market,
equity futures just off session highs,
up by 0.6%. There is a very small move
in the bond market. Just taking another
bite out of this morning's bond market
rally. Yields were down by two, three
basis points. Now down just one on tens
to 430. That is two for two. Decent ADP
number, decent retail sales. I'm looking
right now at the Bloomberg US Economic
Surprise Index. And it's actually at
some of the highest levels going back to
late 2023. That means that the amount of
economic reads that have surprised to
the upside versus the downside is the
greatest at almost at the greatest going
back several years. It gives you a sense
of how much momentum and a surprising
degree of it there was in the economy
heading into this. It constrains the
Fed. How much can they actually react to
a downside economic shock given the fact
that there's a lot of heat in this. And
again, it goes back to the question, is
this a growth shock or is this going to
be an inflationary shock given the
proclivity to dispend?
>> And does it raise questions about the
potential for second-order inflationary
effects?
>> Exactly.
>> Just a little bit more on the margin.
People are still spending. So, if you
watch what they do, I'm thinking about
Michelle Meyer of Mastercard when she
came on and she said, "When you take a
look at all the indicators, people are
still spending. Delta, American, people
are still buying at the some of the
strongest booking numbers they were
getting before this situation." So, are
people just going to wholesale stop or
are they going to trim around the
margins and wait until the coast is
clear?
>> Do you want some guesses for Friday?
Love some.
>> Made an estimate in our payrolls survey,
65K. The range this wide. Can't you see
my hands? It's that's this wide. 151 is
the high. The low is -16K.
It's a pretty wide range for payrolls
this coming Friday.
>> And what will actually make a difference
for this market? I mean, I think that
that's also a key question right now.
You always say you learn something from
the numbers, the market's reaction. How
much is the market going to react to
this given the fact that still the oil
price and still the conflict in the
Middle East is driving the train. And
you have a situation, what is good? We
don't even have a sense of what numbers
are good based on just how much the
employment market's shifting. And also,
it's an interesting weekend because of
course, it's Good Friday on Friday. So,
you might not get some market reaction
until Monday across the board. And a lot
of people are speculating is because it
is a long weekend. Potentially, does the
president maybe do something in terms of
the war in Iran?
>> We will be here Friday morning. We
haven't done that yet, have we? No. I
will not be here. I was just Program in
note. It's going to be exciting.
>> Should have done that earlier this week.
Program in note, okay. Starts at 7:00
a.m., I believe, right? It starts at
7:00. We get We get to Yeah, we get to
sleep in for an hour cuz it's Good
Friday.
>> got one of our nice nice graphics to put
up on the screen just to indicate we
will be here on Friday morning. Probably
not. Okay.
>> [laughter]
>> All right. We'll make that happen a
little bit later. 7:00 a.m. Eastern
time, three-hour program. 8:30 Eastern
time, payrolls, full breakdown right
here on Bloomberg TV. Doing the extra
work so that at the end of the year you
can say, "You know what? Back yourself."
You know? Honestly, I can't wait for
this.
>> We're live on TV. I'll subscribe.
Siturita
joins us now of Forrester. Siturita,
welcome to the program. Let's just talk
about that retail sales number and the
momentum in this economy going into the
month of March. How strong was that
continues to reinforce the bit of the
strange story that we've seen through
much of 2025 and now even clearly into
2026, which is that the consumer is
still spending.
But yet, you have record low levels of
consumer confidence and that is only
going to be exacerbated by the war, by
fuel prices.
So, it is I don't expect the numbers to
continue to be as strong. The big
question that we're going to be
listening for from earnings calls is
units.
So, even if sales numbers are high, are
people trading down or are they
purchasing fewer units of things? And
that is something that we've definitely
seen in the data, which is that prices
are simply rising and people are paying
more for those higher-priced goods, but
they're not necessarily purchasing more
of those goods. And that's really where
the softness in the economy really is.
Mike McKee's going to break down the
details of that number in just a moment.
But Siturita, could you walk us through
what typically happens when you see a
spike in energy like the one we've just
seen? What's more interesting to you,
the spike itself or the level? Because
the level itself, historically, $4 per
gallon is not excessive. It's not
welcomed, but it's not excessive. Is it
the spike or the level?
Well, what we typically will see is that
it definitely adversely affects consumer
confidence levels. And you have just
this level of sticker shock, which then
ends up reverberating through other
essential items like grocery goods or
it then ends up negatively affecting the
shopper's willingness for discretionary
goods as well.
So, that's really where we see the
problems. It was not unlike what we saw
coming out of the pandemic, where we had
large levels of inflation on some of
those essential goods.
It just creates a really poor
psychological impact. And particularly
since we are in a K-shaped economy,
where a significant part
of the consumer mix is not
feeling well and not feeling like they
are flush with cash, this becomes yet
another reason that people end up
pulling back on a number of those
essential items. If you are just joining
us, welcome to the program. Just tuning
in. We've got some economic data in the
last 20 minutes or so. Two for two.
Upside surprises on both. You have the
ADP number come out at 8:15 Eastern
time. That came in at 62K. The estimate
in our survey was 40K. And retail sales
dropped just moments ago. That was also
an upside surprise. Mike, I understand
you've got some additional details. What
did you see? We've got the breakdown of
what people were spending money on.
Interesting note that
ex-gasoline,
the retail sales numbers were up by 6/10
of a percent. So, the same amount.
Gasoline prices, of course, much lower
in February than they were
in
than they are now in
March. Electronics stores up half a
percent. But the big winner this time,
health and personal care stores, 2.3%.
Clothing stores up 2% and motor vehicles
up 1.2%. So, people were spending in
some of these
less discretionary areas.
And the general merchandise stores,
department stores, basically unchanged.
The non-store retailers, the online guys
up a 7/10 of a percent. But the
interesting thing is, grocery stores
were down by 1%. We spent money on
clothes and cars and we didn't eat, I
guess. Mike McKay, thank you. I guess. I
mean, the data is what the data is.
Doesn't make much sense sometimes, but
that's the data. The idea that the
people are spending uh so significantly
on cars, on clothing, on on
discretionary goods indicated that they
did have discretionary funds. And that
ultimately is the question that people
have. How much momentum is there to
withstand this So, Shruti, based on that
breakdown, how much are you seeing
people being able to absorb the increase
in gasoline prices, or do you think that
that will divert funding away from
discretionary spending and potentially
hit the retailers and the car
dealerships?
Yeah, that's typically what we would do
see um whenever you have a spike in
pricing that affects such a broad swath
of the economy. Um one other nuance um
just with respect to the data is much of
those retail forward numbers are
month-over-month numbers. Um and what is
equally as important, and I would argue
even more important, is looking at the
year-over-year numbers. And what we are
seeing with respect to year-over-year
numbers is that there is still an
increase overall. Much of it is tied to
inflation levels, so we're not
necessarily seeing people spending um on
more units of goods, but they're
certainly able to spend more to cover
the higher price of goods across a
variety of different categories. Um so,
that I think is the important piece to
to consider. So, Shruti, we're going to
get earnings in a couple of weeks, and
hopefully we'll get guidance about how
some of these companies are navigating
the inflationary shock, at least for
some of their products and their
shipping. Just when you do channel
checks, how much do you get a sense that
retailers are able to pass along the
price increases to consumers more
directly?
Well, certainly they've been passing
them along um pretty shamelessly in a
lot of these essential goods. Um so,
that is that's that the there's the
shopper certainly seems to be absorbing
that. Um the shopper clearly is not
happy to absorb that, and that's where
you see um the those consumer confidence
numbers down, where you see um the the
shopper certainly um either trading down
or often opting to items that may be
private label goods. Um certainly, I
think in the automotive sector, um when
gas prices are high, what you're also
going to start seeing is um flights to
things like hybrid cars or electric
cars. So, um you see substitutions
happening in a variety of different
places, and uh that is is absolutely an
outcome of this. And and it doesn't
take, you know, kind of a year of these
higher prices for this impact to happen.
Even if it's a few weeks, um people
react relatively quickly. Shruti, I
appreciate your time. Thanks for jumping
on. Shruti Godbole there, a forester
following a better than expected retail
sales print in America. Central banks
recently clarifying their reaction
functions, offering greater clarity.
Governor Bailey, the Bank of England,
doing that just now with Reuters. As
these headlines just dropped, markets
are ahead of themselves in pricing rate
hikes. We have to act in a way that
doesn't harm the economy or harm jobs.
>> And going on to say businesses have less
ability to raise prices. So, they don't
really see the inflationary read-through
because of consumers that are cramped,
and even if they are spending more on
dollar levels or on pound levels,
they're not necessarily buying more
goods just by virtue of how much prices
have gone up. Highlighting just again,
the reaction function is not to hike
rates necessarily. The reaction function
might be to support growth by cutting or
at least holding steady. At one point in
the month of March, we had something
like a 100 basis point move at the front
end of the UK curve, which is wild. We'd
gone from talking about the potential
for rate cuts to talking about the
potential for two, three interest rate
hikes through the year ahead. That's a
massive turnaround. Yields at the front
end this morning down by eight basis
points on UK twos. Sterling just a touch
weaker off the back of those headlines.
Well, also talking about Alissa's point
that maybe it's not the inflationary
impact that central banks are worried
about right now. Bailey to the Reuters
is saying the focus on the next meeting
is going to be jobs and growth. They're
worried about what this means for the
growth. What did we hear from Ellen
Zentner? Her probability of recession
has gone up. There's a sequence it gets
you for these guys, for communication
and for action. They have to pledge to
anchor inflation expectations first
before they can worry about growth,
because they know if they come out up
front and say we're worried more about
growth than inflation, if they'd done
that a month ago, as soon as you got the
energy shock, what would we have seen
happen to inflation expectations if they
were the comments that were coming from
these central banks? That's the belief
system that they have to follow. That
first and foremost, you anchor inflation
expectations, and then you worry about
growth soon after. And I wonder if we've
got to the worry stage already. Yeah,
verbal intervention leads to a
tightening of financial conditions,
which leads to worries about downside to
growth, which is why Tom Becker of
BlackRock came on and said he sees real
value opening up in the European front
end of the yield curve because of
expected comments like this.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg Brief.
Yahaira has more. Hey, Yahaira. Hi,
John. Recapping that data we just
received, retail sales for February
coming in above expectations, rising
6/10 of a percent month-over-month. And
in the labor market, private payrolls
[music] surprising to the upside in
March, ADP reporting employers added
62,000 jobs [music] versus estimates of
40,000.
Anthropic accidentally leaking source
code for its Claude AI tool. The company
blaming a human error for the exposure
of over 500,000
lines of internal data. [music] While
Anthropic claims no customer info was
compromised, some are raising concerns
about potential security
vulnerabilities. [music]
And NASA astronauts are set to lift off
today on a 10-day journey around the
moon. The voyage marks the biggest
milestone yet in NASA's Artemis campaign
to land humans on the moon as soon as
[music] 2028. The crew is set to travel
farther in space than anyone in history.
That's your Bloomberg Brief, [music]
John. Amazing. Very cool. Yahaira, thank
you. I appreciate your work this
morning. Um next on the program, Nouriel
Roubini of Hudson Bay Capital with
investors awaiting President Trump's
evening [music] address to the nation
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
We did this Monday.
We did this Tuesday.
We're doing it again this morning. This
statement from the President of the
United States just moments ago. It reads
as follows. Iran's new regime president,
much less radicalized and far more
intelligent than his predecessors, has
just asked the United States of America
for a cease-fire. We will consider when
Hormuz Strait is open, free, and clear.
Until then, we are blasting Iran into
oblivion, or as they say, back
to the Stone Ages. The President of the
United States on social media just
moments ago. So, I think he's talking
about Masoud Pezeshkian, but to your
point in the commercial break, he isn't
new. He has been the president of Iran
since 2024. On top of that, we did see
the markets whipsaw yesterday off of
this call the president had with one of
his European counterparts saying, "We
are open to ending the cease-fire." But
reiterated what Iran would need to see
to end those to end the to have a
cease-fire. And what Iran wants to see
will be absolutely non-starters by the
United States. It's also important to
note that Iran's president
really [music] has no influence, very
limited influence on this regime. On top
of that, the Iranian president's role is
domestic economic policy. He is not
going to be the one that decides the war
should end. So, this one [music]
component of this
that keeps changing Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, and it's how dependent ending
hostilities is
on the situation with the Strait of
Hormuz. So, let's just go through
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday together. So,
on Monday, the president said, "If the
Hormuz Strait is not immediately open
for business, we will conclude our
lovely stand around by blowing up and
completely obliterating all of their
electric generating plants, oil wells,
and Kharg Island, and possibly
desalination plants." On Tuesday, the
president said, "You'll have to start
learning how to fight for yourself. The
USA won't be there for you anymore, like
you weren't there for us. Go get your
own oil." Which spoke to the reporting
from the Wall Street Journal that maybe
they'd end these hostilities with Iran
without reopening the strait. And then
it feels like this morning, Wednesday,
we're closer to Monday
than we are to Tuesday.
What do you do with this? Well, maybe
you just focus on what's going on in the
region, and frankly, every analyst and
investor who's come on the show today
has said, "Look at what is feasible."
And it is infeasible for the US to pull
out for this war to be over without the
Strait of Hormuz
>> [music]
>> being this a passage of free flow for
trade. And that's I think what a lot of
people just keep focusing on.
>> So, the stock market's all over the
place. Spikes higher. It's pulled back
from there. We're now higher by about
0.5% on the S&P 500 off session highs.
Bond yields are sitting this out. A
decent data, ADP, retail sales. Yields
now unchanged on the 10-year, 4.31. And
crude, crude was lower going into that
announcement. It stays lower. Brent
crude down by about 2% at 102. Let's
make sense of this. Nouriel Roubini of
Hudson Bay Capital writes the following.
"If the president walks away from the
war with Iran now, the threat to
shipping in the Strait of Hormuz will
remain despite the obvious risk. He has
every reason to try to finish the job."
Nouriel, good morning. Good morning. And
good luck as well. You know, to explain
the last few days, what is the status of
things in your mind, and where do you
think this is headed?
Well, there are two options. One is to
de-escalate and walk away from this war
and get to a cease-fire.
But they're going to get a cease-fire
without a deal with Iran, and Iran's
going to have control the Strait of
Hormuz. It's going to threaten the Gulf
and the supply of oil. You have a regime
that's actually much more radical today
than it was before, because Mojtaba
Khamenei's son is more radical than his
father. They're going to rebuild
uh
ballistic missiles. They're going to
build even more drones. They're going to
even try to enrich the uranium they have
to weapon grade and have a bomb. So,
it's a disaster. You know,
Trump is already behind in the polls.
This war has been a bit of a failure.
But, now going away from it implies he's
going to for sure lose the midterms, not
just the house, but probably the Senate.
So, I think that in spite of all the
rhetoric about negotiations and getting
a ceasefire, my more likely scenario, I
give it a 2/3 probability, is one in
which the US has to escalate and finish
the job. And escalate means take over
Kharg Island, try to take over even the
Strait of Hormuz, try to reopen it, try
to have regime collapse, and win this
war, and finally have a more stable
Middle East. It's a very risky one, cuz
if you take that chance, you might win,
but there's also the chance that you
lose, and then they beat
the block even more Hormuz, they destroy
even more energy supplies of the Gulf
is, and then you end up in 1970s
stagflation. But, in my view, escalating
and winning is more likely than
escalating and losing. And given the
politics and the electoral dynamics,
he'll have to escalate. So, if you
escalate and you end up losing, you said
it's 1970s stagflation all over again.
>> Yeah. If you win, what does that look
like based on the risk premia that are
likely to go on a lot of physical goods
and a question about stockpiling in
different regions as a result of
multiple different supply chain shocks?
Well, if you escalate and win means that
you take over Kharg Island, you cut off
by 90%
the revenues of the government, you
continue the bombing campaign, you
destroy the military assets, you take
over even the nuclear
kind of weapon grade
uranium, you try to destroy the
leadership, you try to have regime
collapse, and you try to keep open as
much as you can Strait of Hormuz while
defending the oil and energy facilities
of the Gulf is.
If all these things happen and you win,
then actually you got rid of the regime,
and for a short term, maybe 2-3 months,
you have oil prices above 120, but then
you're going to go to a stable world.
And by the way, Iran controlling the
Strait of Hormuz is a threat to the Gulf
is, it's a threat to Israel, it's a
threat to Europe, it's a threat to Asia,
it's a threat to the United States. So,
as the uh Emirates have been saying
clearly, this is not acceptable, and
this is the same view that people all
over the Gulf have. It's not an
acceptable solution. So,
given what has happened, you have to try
to finish the job. And finishing the job
means having de facto regime collapse,
either formally regime collapse or
informally a situation in which this
regime is not anymore a threat to the
region and to the world. Well, the
regime has been weakened though. You you
give that point to the president, but
absolute collapse, there's been no
evidence that we've seen defections, and
they're still in control. Well, de facto
collapse in my view means that
you take [clears throat] over Kharg
Island, you try to reopen the Strait of
Hormuz, you try to make sure that they
cannot destroy more energy facilities in
the Gulf. Uh you keep on bombing the
hell out of them for weeks. They're
already been eroded a lot, and every day
is thousands of new targets within
Israel and the United States. You may
even be able to kill some of the
remaining leadership, and de facto that
effectively a regime collapse. It's not
a regime collapse, a regime that doesn't
have nuclear weapon, doesn't have
weapon, cannot threaten the Strait of
Hormuz, and whether it's formal regime
collapse or not at that point doesn't
matter. But, that means finishing the
job. Nouriel, we've got about 60 seconds
left. You lived in Tehran
Yeah. as a child. Yeah. How personal is
this for you?
You know, I'm a person Persian Jew, so I
was in Iran last when I was 3 years old.
I lived in Israel, grew up in Italy and
the US. So, I don't take it personally,
but I would say that while this is an
appalling
regime and the current one is worse than
the previous one, the threat is not just
to Israel, the threat is not just to the
GCC country, the threat right now is not
just to Europe. Europe is threatened
from a economic point of view, from a
military point of view. The missiles
long
range ballistic missiles of Iran can
reach anywhere of the European Union.
It's a threat to the world. It's not
acceptable. You can discuss whether it
was the right thing or not to start this
war. But, once you start it, if you
don't finish it, it's going to be much
worse than the situation previously. So,
given the risk, you have to try to
finish the job and having effective
regime collapse or the regime boxed in
in a way that is not anymore a threat.
Nouriel, we appreciate your time and
your experience, sir. Thanks for sharing
it with us. Thank you. Nouriel Roubini
there of Hudson Bay Capital
and Roubini Associates breaking down the
risks to the economy and the phase we're
in right now, the opportunity to get to
a better place. This is why a lot of
people keep focusing on the idea that
the US can't just walk away, that this
can't just end with Iran controlling the
Strait of Hormuz, and why some people
are looking past to that better scenario
on the other side.
>> Q2 starting to feel a bit like Q1.
First day in. Yeah, and this is my
shocked face. I mean, come on, did you
actually expect us to be in a whole new
world?
>> A whole new world?
>> Oh, yeah. A whole new The Disney song.
>> Yes. Yeah. I'm not going to sing it.
Okay. Now, I'm not going
>> [laughter]
>> Coming up on the program tomorrow, Jim
Zelter of Apollo Global Management. Good
banter. Mike Parl [snorts] of BlackRock.
I like that. [laughter]
>> you think I'm not funny. I'm very funny
sometimes.
>> That was good.